Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization
 
OBJECTIVES
✴ Increasing the reach of farm mechanization to small and marginal farmers to improve the farm power.
 
FUNDING PATTERN
✴ Union Government 60%
✴ State Government 40%
 
BENEFITS OFFERED (SUBSIDY)
Individual Machinery
✴ 50% subsidy - SC, ST, Small, Marginal and Women farmers
✴ 40% subsidy - Other beneficiary farmers.
✴ Additional 20 percentage subsidy will be provided for small and marginal farmer belongs to SC/ST category.
✴ Additional 10 percentage subsidy will be provided for small and marginal farmers of General category (other than SC and ST) for the purchase of Power Weeder and Paddy Transplanter.
Custom Hiring Centres
✴ 40% subsidy - The Rural entrepreneurs, Co operative Societies of Farmers, Self Help Groups,Registered Farmer Societies and Farmer Producer Organizations for the establishment of block level Custom Hiring Centres.
✴ 80% subsidy - Registered Farmers Societies, Co operative Socities of farmers, Self Help Groups and FPOs for the establishment of village level Custom Hiring Centres.
 
PROJECT AREA
✴ Distribution of Individual Machinery - All districts (Except Chennai)
✴ Block Level Custom Hiring Centres - All districts (Except Chennai)
✴ Village level Custom Hiring Centres - All districts (Except Chennai, Tiruvannamalai and Villupuram)
 
DETAILS OF WORKS
✴ Providing subsidy assistance to Farmers / Custom Hiring Centres for the purchase of Agricultural Machinery/ Implements such as Power Tiller, Power Weeder, Chaff Cutter, Brush Cutter, Paddy Transplanter, Power Tiller, Tractor, Rotavator, Cultivator, Disc Plough, Laser Land Leveller, Seed cum Fertiliser Drill, Coconut Front Chopper, Multicrop Thresher, etc.,
 ✴ Providing subsidy assistance to farmers for purchase of Post Harvest and Value addition Machinery and installation of Solar Drier
 
ELIGIBILITY
✴ For individual based machinery - All farmers.
✴ Block Level Custom Hiring Centres – Rural Entrepreneur, Co operative Societies of Farmers, Self Help Groups,Registered Farmers Societies and Farmer Producer Organizations.
✴ Village Level Custom Hiring Centres - Registered Farmers Societies, Co operative Societies of Farmers, Self Help Groups,and Farmer Producer Organizations.
 
OFFICER TO BE APPROACHED
✴ Assistant Executive Engineer (AE)'s  in the concerned project districts.