

--- Page 1 ---

SCHEMES

Department of Agriculture & Farmers' Empowerment

--- Page 2 ---

CONTENTS

AGRICULTURE

CENTRALLY SPONSORED SCHEMES

➢ National Food Security Mission
➢ National Mission For Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA)
➢ National Mission On Agricultural Extension And Technology (NMAET)
➢ Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY)
➢ PMFBY Guidelines

STATE SECTOR SCHEMES

➢ Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA) Scheme
➢ Bhoominna Agriculturist Loan and Resources Augmentation Model (BALARAM) Scheme
➢ Mukhyamantri Krushi UdyogYojana (MKUY)
➢ Crop Diversification
➢ Capital Investment And Farm Mechanisation
➢ Crop Production Management
➢ Farmer’s Welfare And Innovative Projects
➢ Harnessing Surface And Ground Water
➢ Information, Education And Communication
➢ Training And Capacity Building Of Agriculture

--- Page 3 ---

HORTICULTURE

CENTRALLY SPONSORED SCHEMES

➢ Guideline- MIDH English
➢ Guidelines- PMKSY English
➢ Guideline- NFSM- Oil Palm- English

STATE SECTOR SCHEMES

➢ Input Subsidy
➢ Implementation of Horticulture Programme in Non- Horticulture Mission District
➢ Development of Potato, Spices & Vegetables
➢ State Potato Mission
➢ Development of Potato Vegetable &Spices (Modalities for potato Cultivation during 2021-22)
➢ Operational GU guidelines for availing electricity tariff subsidy under the state potato mission
➢ Operational Guidelines for Kharif 2021
➢ Operational Guidelines YAAS

SPECIAL INITIATIVES UNDERTAKEN IN HORTICULTURE SECTOR

➢ Promotion of Agriculture Production Clusters (APCs) in tribal regions of Odisha
➢ Hon’ble Chief Minister Package for COVID-19
➢ Hon’ble Chief Minister Package for Flood affected Districts

2

--- Page 4 ---

SCHEMES OF SOIL CONSERVATION & WATERSHED DEVELOPMENT

CENTRALLY SPONSORED SCHEMES

➢ PMKSY
➢ RAD
➢ RKVY
➢ MGNREGS Convergence Programme

STATE SECTOR SCHEMES

➢ Farm Pond
➢ Farm Pond+
➢ Innovative Agro forestry for Food and Nutrition Security
➢ Rejuvenating Watersheds for Agricultural Resilience through Innovative Development (REWARD)
➢ Mission Shakti

OTHER SCHEMES

➢ Odisha mineral bearing area development corporation (OMBADC)
➢ District mineral foundation (DMF)
➢ FAO-GEF assisted Green Agriculture Project

--- Page 5 ---

Agricultural Scheme

4

--- Page 6 ---

CENTRALLY SPONSORED SCHEMES

NATIONAL FOOD SECURITY MISSION

The scheme is being implemented from 2007-08 as a Central Sector Scheme with an objective to enhance production & productivity of Rice & Pulse crops in selected districts of the state in Mission Mode. Besides, this embodies Sub-Schemes for enhancing production & productivity of Coarse Cereals under NFSM-Coarse Cereals, and Cotton, Jute and Sugarcane under NFSM-Commercial crops, NFSM-Nutricereals and NFSM-Oilseeds. Besides, Targeting Rice Fallow Areas is being implemented under NFSM for increasing coverage under pulses and oilseeds crops.

Objectives: Increase food security by stepping up the overall food production and food stocks held by the government; ensure the nation remains self-sufficient and prices remain under check.

Interventions: Under NFSM, the interventions are focused on increasing food production by organising:
✓ Cluster Demonstrations – test beds for demonstrations are being set up on improved package and cropping systems.
✓ Seed Distribution – Distribution of high-yielding varieties and hybrid seeds at subsidised costs.
✓ Farm Machineries – Distribution of farm equipment and tools like conoweeder, manual sprayer, drum seeder, seed drill, zero till multi-crop planter, power weeder, paddy thresher, laser land leveller; all at subsidized costs.
✓ Plant Protection – Subsidised distribution of plant protection chemicals and bio-pesticides; weedicides.
✓ Micro-Nutrients and Soil Ameliorants – Distribution of subsidised micro-nutrients, lime/ liming materials, etc.
✓ Resource conservation Tools and Techniques.
✓ Local Initiatives – Five percent of total state allocation spent for funding on project basis, and
✓ Setting up of project management teams at State and District levels.

5

--- Page 7 ---

NATIONAL MISSION FOR SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (NMSA)

The scheme is being implemented with different components viz. Soil Health Management (SHM), Soil Health Card, Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY), Bharatiya Prakrutik Krishi Padhatti (BPKP) etc through Directorate of agriculture.

1. NATIONAL PROJECT ON MANAGEMENT OF SOIL HEALTH AND FERTILITY - SOIL HEALTH CARD & SOIL HEALTH MANAGEMENT (UNDER NMSA)

Objective: Provide farmers with soil health cards with recommendations based on soil test results for judicious and balanced fertiliser use and up-keeping soil health.

Interventions:
✓ Soil Health Card 
✓ Demon./ Fin. Assistance to Farmers 
✓ Farmers’ Training 
✓ Campaign Mode One week Soil Health mela involving Farmers) 
✓ Workshop 
✓ ICT

2. PARAMPARAGAT KRISHI VIKAS YOJANA (PKVY)

Objective: Organic agriculture is a production of agricultural products free from chemicals and pesticides residues by adopting eco-friendly low cost technologies "Param pragat Krishi Vikas Yojana” is an elaborated component of Soil Health Management (SHM) of National Mission of Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA). Under PKVY, Organic farming is promoted through adoption of organic village by cluster approach and PGS certification.

Interventions:
o Adoption & PGS Certification through cluster approach 
o Mobilization of farmers/ local people to form cluster in 50 acre for PGS Certification

6

--- Page 8 ---

o  PGS Certification and Quality Control  
o  Adoption of organic village for manure Management and biological nitrogen  
   harvesting through cluster approach.  
o  Action Plan for organic farming for one Cluster.  
o  Integrated Manure Management  
o  Custom Hiring centre (C.H.C) Charges  
o  Packing, Labelling & Branding of Organic products of cluster.  

NATIONAL MISSION ON AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION AND TECHNOLOGY (NMAET):  
The scheme is being implemented with four Sub-Missions viz. Sub Mission on Farm  
Mechanisation, Sub Mission on Agriculture Extension & National e-Governance Plan,  
Sub Mission on Seed and Planting Materials and Sub Mission on Plant Protection and  
Quarantine.  

Objective: The aim of the Mission is to restructure and strengthen agricultural  
extension to enable delivery of appropriate technology and improved agronomic  
practices to farmers.  

1.  SUB-MISSION ON AGRICULTURE MECHANISATION (SMAM):  
Objectives: The prime objective would be to promote agriculture mechanization  
through extending procurement subsidy & establishment of Farm Machinery banks  
to facilitate custom hiring.  

Interventions: Provision of subsidy to farmers on the selected improved farm  
machineries & equipment’s used for various agricultural operations (both during  
crop stand & post-harvest), conducting training & demonstrations on their use and  
maintenance. Besides, assistance would be provided for mechanized land  
preparation, establishment of farm machinery banks for custom hiring, High-Tech  
productive equipment Centres etc. Selected village(s) would be adopted for  
complete mechanization package.  

7

--- Page 9 ---

2. SUB-MISSION ON SEED AND PLANTING MATERIAL (SMSP)

Objective: The scheme is being implemented with the prime objective of making available quality seeds and planting material to farmers through quality seed production, distribution and quality control.

Interventions: Promotion of seed production, quality seed distribution, capacity building on seed production, Infrastructure strengthening for quality seed production, processing and distribution etc.

3. SUB-MISSION ON AGRICULTURE EXTENSION (SMAE)

Objective: Sub-Mission on Agricultural Extension will focus on awareness creation and enhanced use of appropriate technologies in agriculture & allied sectors through PRA studies besides promoting demand driven extension and promotion of market-led technologies.

Intervention: Gains made in the past will be consolidated and strengthened through increased penetration of extension functionaries. Personnel trained under Agri-Clinics and Agri-Business Centres Scheme (ACABC) and Diploma in Agriculture Extension Services for Input Dealers (DAESI) will also provide extension services to the farmers. Use of interactive and innovative methods of information dissemination like pico projectors, low cost films, handheld devices, mobile based services, Kisan Call Centres (KCCs) etc. will be used and convergence brought among extension efforts under different programmes and schemes at village level through the institution of ATMA (Agriculture Technology Management Agency) and Block Technology Teams (BTTs).

4. NATIONAL e-GOVERNANCE PLAN (NeGP)

NeGP takes a holistic view of e-governance initiatives across the country, integrating them into a collective vision, a shared cause. Around this idea, a massive countrywide infrastructure reaching down to the remotest of villages is evolving, and large-scale digitization of records is taking place to enable easy, reliable access over the internet.

Objective: The ultimate objective is to bring public services closer home to citizens. "Make all government services accessible to the common man in his locality, through

--- Page 10 ---

common service delivery outlets, and ensure efficiency, transparency, and reliability of such services at affordable costs to realise the basic needs of the common man"

Intervention: Increased use of ICT in agriculture through networking every nook and corner up to grass root level.

5. SUB-MISSION ON PLANT PROTECTION AND QUARANTINE (SMPP)

Objective: Sub-Mission on Plant Protection included in NMAET envisages increase in agricultural production by keeping the crop disease free using scientific and environment friendly techniques through promotion of Integrated Pest Management. Strengthening and Modernization of Pest Management Approach aims at this vital aspect of Plant Protection and also covers regulatory requirements of pesticides. The component on Strengthening & Modernization of Plant Quarantine facilities in India is regulatory in nature with the aim of preventing introduction and spread of exotic pests that are harmful to crops by regulating/restricting import of plant/plant products. Monitoring pesticide residues in food commodities and environmental samples is also included in this Sub-Mission.

Intervention: The scheme is implemented with the prime objective of modernising pest management by assisting activities on Plant protection and taking up quarantine measures at entry points like Airport/ Sea Port etc. to protect the state from invasion by unwanted organisms.

Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY)

1. Objective of the Scheme

Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) aims at supporting sustainable production in agriculture sector by way of

• Providingfinancialsupporttofarmerssufferingcroploss/damagearisingouto funforeseenevents
• Stabilizing the income of farmers to ensure their continuance in farming 9

--- Page 11 ---

• Encouragingfarmerstoadoptinnovativeandmodernagriculturalpractices
• Ensuringflowofcredittotheagriculturesectorwhichwillcontributetofoodsecurity, crop diversification and enhancing growth and competitiveness of agriculture sector besides protecting farmers from production risks.

2. Adoption of Technology for Scheme Administration:

2.1 In an endeavour to integrate Technology in implementation and execution of the Scheme, the Govt. of India has designed and developed a National Crop Insurance Portal (NCIP) (www.pmfby.gov.in). This will bring in better administration and coordination amongst stakeholders viz. Farmers, States, Insurers and Banks as well as real-time dissemination of information and transparency.

2.2 The successful running of the Portal calls for responsible participation by different stakeholders who will have the responsibility for census coding and updating revenue/administrative units, AWS code mapping and updating requisite information/details as per login credentials.

2.3 Implementing States and Insurance Companies during each crop season are required to digitize and upload on the web Portal in the relevant module, basic information like notified areas, crops, sum insured, Govt. subsidy, and premium to be paid by farmers and name of the implementing Insurance Companies in the particular insurance unit etc., well within the prescribed time. This will facilitate farmers and other stakeholders to get the relevant information on Internet and through SMS. State Govt. and concerned Insurance Company will be responsible for any incorrect entry/ errors/ omissions etc.

2.4 Digitizationofbasicinformation/notificationshouldcompulsorilybedonebeforefloatingtenderdocuments which will be followed by entry of bided Premium rates and name of selected Insurance Company immediately after finalization of bids and issue of work order.

2.5 SincetheNationalCropInsurancePortalhasbeenconceptualisedforautoad

--- Page 12 ---

ministrationsandseamless flow of data/information/reports on real time basis, State Govt. would not be allowed to create/use separate Portal/website for Crop Insurance purposes. 

2.6 All Stakeholders have defined roles and responsibilities and accessibility to related modules on the Portal for administration of the Scheme. Details of operationalization of modules for each stakeholder are available on the Portal for ready reference. 

2.7 Secured credential/ login preferably linked with Aadhar Number and mobile OTP based, for all Stakeholders viz, Central Government, State Governments, Banks, empanelled Insurance Companies and their designated field functionaries will be provided on the Portal to enable them to enter/upload/download the requisite information. 

2.8 Insurance Companies shall not distribute/collect/allow any other proforma /utility/web Portal etc. for collecting details of insured farmers separately. However they may provide all requisite support to facilitate Bank Branches/ PACS for uploading the farmer’s details on the Portal well within the prescribed cut-off dates. 

2.9 Only farmers whose data is uploaded on the National Crop Insurance Portal shall be eligible for Insurance coverage and the premium subsidy from State and Central Govt. will be released accordingly. 

2.10 All data pertaining to crop-wise, area-wise historical yield data, weather data, sown area, coverage and lames data, calamity years and actual yield shall be made available on the National Crop Insurance Portal for the purpose of premium rating, claim calculation etc. 

2.11 Banks/Financial Institutions/other intermediaries need to compulsorily transfer the individual farmer’s data electronically to the National Crop Insurance Portal. Accordingly Banks/FIs may endeavour to undertake CBS integration in a time bound manner for real time transfer of information/data. 

2.12 It is also proposed to develop an integrated platform/portal for both

--- Page 13 ---

PMFBY and Interest Subvention Scheme. The data/information of both the Schemes shall be auto synchronized to enable real time sharing of information and better program monitoring.

2.13 Insurance Companies shall compulsorily use technology/mobile applications for monitoring of crop health/Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs) in coordination with concerned States. States shall also facilitate Insurance Companies with Satellite Imagery/Usage of Drones by way of prior approval of agency from which such data can be sourced. This is required for better monitoring and ground-truthing. ICs can be active partners in facilitating use of technology.

2.14 States shall adopt technology, such as satellite and UAV remote sensing, for various applications such as crop area estimation and yield disputes and also promote the use of remote sensing and other related technology for CCE planning, yield estimation, loss assessment, and assessment of prevented sowing and clustering of districts.

3. Coverage of Farmers

3.1 All farmers including sharecroppers and tenant farmers growing the notified crops in the notified areas are eligible for coverage. However, farmers should have insurable interest for the notified/insured crops. Then on-loanee farmers are required to submit necessary documentary evidence of land records prevailing in the State (Records of Right (RoR), Land possession Certificate (LPC)etc.)and/or applicable contract/ agreement details/ other documents notified/ permitted by concerned State Govt. in case of sharecroppers/tenant farmers and the same should be defined by the respective States in the notification itself.

3.1.1 Compulsory Component

3.1.1.1 All farmers who have been sanctioned Seasonal Agricultural Operations

--- Page 14 ---

(SAO) loans from Financial Institutions (FIs) (i.e. loanee farmers) for the notified crop(s) season would be covered compulsorily. This provision shall override any decision taken by FIs including PACS exempting farmers from compulsory coverage of loanee farmers. 

3.1.1.2 However non-standard KCC /crop loans as defined and as per prevailing practices of the concerned Banks/Govt. regulator shall not be covered compulsorily. However bank branches may facilitate such farmers for enrolment as non-loanee farmers. 

3.1.1.3 Merely, sanctioning of crop loan against other collateral securities including fixed deposits, gold/jewel loans, mortgage loans etc. without having insurable interest of the farmer on the insurable land and notified crops shall not be covered under the Scheme. 

3.1.2 Voluntary Component 
• The Scheme is optional for non-loanee farmers. 
• The insurance coverage will strictly be equivalent to sum insured /hectare, as defined in the Govt. notification or/and on National Crop Insurance Portal multiplied by sown area for notified crop. 

3.1.3 Special efforts shall be made to ensure maximum coverage of SC/ ST/ Women farmers under the Scheme. Further Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs)may be involved in extension and awareness creation amongst farmers and obtaining feed-back of farmers about the implementation of the Scheme.

3.1.4 The implementing Insurance Company selected as L1 will be responsible for taking necessary measures to ensure at least 10% incremental increase in coverage of non-loanee farmers. However other empanelled Insurance Companies which have participated in the bidding and are keen for enrolment of non loanee farmers in the cluster may also is allowed to enrol non-loanee farmers at L1premium rate. The interested companies have to inform their willingness in writing within seven days of finalisation of tender/issuance of work order to L1. It will however be the responsibility of all the Insurance Companies engaged in this process 

13

--- Page 15 ---

to ensure that duplicate enrolment does not happen in the given cluster/district. Engaging companies other than L1 for enrolling non loanee farmers will be taken upon a pilot basis in District notified by State Govt. They shall enrol non loanee farmers as per conditions laid down in Para 17.5.

3.1.5 These Insurance Company will maintain separate data of such non loanee farmers covered by them and enter the said data on the portal as per seasonality discipline detailed in Para 16.2. They shall be liable for payment to claims to such farmers.

3.1.6 The exchange of information, co-witnessing of CCEs and sharing of yield data etc for the cluster by Government/NCIP will be limited to L1 Company only and it will be binding on other companies to accept it. However, the requisition for payment of Government subsidy in respect of non-loanee enrolled by them will be submitted directly to the Govt designated agency.

I. Food crops (Cereals, Millets and Pulses),
II. Oilseeds
III. Annual Commercial/Annual Horticultural crops.

In addition for perennial crops, pilots for coverage can be taken for those perennial horticultural crops for which standard methodology for yield estimation is available.

5 Coverage of Risks and Exclusions

5.1 Following stages of the crop risks leading to crop loss are covered under the Scheme. Addition of new risks by the State Govt. to the than the one mentioned below, by the State Govt. Is not permitted.

5.1.1 Prevented Sowing/Planting/Germination Risk: Insured is prevented from sowing/planting/germination due to deficit rain fall or adverse seasonal /weather conditions.

5.1.2 Standing Crop (Sowing to Harvesting): Comprehensive risk insurance is 14

--- Page 16 ---

provided to cover yield losses due to non-preventable risks, viz. Drought, Dry spell, Flood, Inundation, widespread Pests and Disease attack, Landslides, Fire due to natural causes, Lightening ,Storm, Hailstorm and Cyclone.

5.1.3 Post-Harvest Losses: Coverage is available only up to a maximum period of two weeks from harvesting, for those crops which are required to be dried in cut and spread / small bundled condition in the field after harvesting against specific perils of Hailstorm, Cyclone, Cyclonic rains and Unseasonal rains.

5.1.4 Localized Calamities: Loss/damage to notified insured crops resulting from occurrence of identified localized risks of Hailstorm, Landslide, Inundation, Cloud burst and Natural fire due to lightening affecting isolated farms in the notified area.

5.1.5 Add on coverage for crop loss due to attack by wild animals: The States may consider providing add-on coverage for crop loss due to attack by wild animals wherever the risk is perceived to be substantial and is identifiable. Detailed protocol and procedure for evaluation of bids will be issued separately by GOl a consultation with Ministry of Environment and Forest and GICRe.

5.1.6 The add-on coverage will be optional for the farmers and applicable optional premium will be borne by the Farmer, however the State Govts may consider providing additional subsidy on this coverage, wherever notified. The actuarial premium rates for add-on coverage’s would be sought in the bid itself from the Insurance Companies; however the add-on actuarial premium rate will be considered separately and shall not form part of evaluation of L1.

5.1.7 General Exclusions: Losses arising out of war and nuclear risks, malicious damage and other preventable risks shall be excluded.

5.1.8 State Govts./UTs ,in consultation with SLCCCI, can exclude any of the aforesaid perils listed above which is not prevailing in their State/UT

--- Page 17 ---

5.1.9 Yield loss damage for localised calamities and post-harvest losses will be assessed on the basis of individual insured farm level and hence lodging of loss information by farmer/designated agencies is essential. For remaining risks losses are due to wide spread calamities. Hence lodging of information for claims by insured farmers / designated agencies for such wise spread calamities is not essential. Claims will be calculated based on the loss assessment report/average yield submitted by concerned State Govt.

6 Preconditions for implementation of the Scheme

6.1 States:

Issuance of Notification by State Govt. / UT for implementation of the Scheme (PMFBY) will imply their acceptance of all provisions, modalities and guidelines of the Scheme. The main conditions relating to PMFBY which are binding on States/UTs are as follows:

6.1.1 Adoption of innovative technology especially Smart phones/ hand held devices for capturing conduct of CCEs through CCE-Agri App and use of NCIP platform for flow of information and auto administration of the scheme.

6.1.2 State has to conduct requisite number of Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs) at the level of notified insurance unit area;

6.1.3 CCE based yield data will be uploaded on the National Crop Insurance Portal/submitted to Insurance Company within the notified cut-off date;

6.1.4 State/ UT will make necessary budgetary provision for premium subsidy based on fair estimates, at the beginning of the crop season;

6.1.5 To carry out pilot studies for improved yield estimation sousing technology.

6.1.6 Department of State Govt. Which was earlier looking after implementation of erstwhile National Agriculture Insurance Scheme (NAIS)/ National Crop Insurance Programme (NCIP*) may be designated as Nodal Department for implementation of PMFBY. The State Level

--- Page 18 ---

Coordination Committee on Crop Insurance (SLCCCI) which was overseeing implementation of NAIS and NCIP* may be authorized to oversee implementation of PMFBY. The States/UTs which had not implemented the NAIS/NCIP*shall constitute SLCCCI for implementation of PMFBY on the lines similar to that of NAIS/NCIP*. The present composition of SLCCCI may be strengthened by including representatives from State Horticulture Dept., State Remote Sensing Application Centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Farmers’ Representatives and empanelled Insurance Companies for implementing PMFBY. Chairman of SLCCCI may co-opt representatives from other departments/agencies, if considered necessary.

6.2 Insurance Company:

Empanelment of Insurance Companies and their participation for implementation of the Scheme (PMFBY) will imply their acceptance of all provisions, modalities and guidelines of the Scheme. The empanelled Insurance Companies have to deploy requisite infrastructure and resources for implementation of PMFBY particularly for following identified major activities:

6.2.1 To carry out Pilot study for leveraging new technology for effective implementation of Scheme in a transparent manner,

6.2.2 Deployment of requisite infrastructure to increase the outreach to rural farmers at their door step,

6.2.3 Commitment for at least 10% incremental increase in Non loanee coverage,

6.2.4 Deployment of sufficient manpower to co-observe CCEs and allied activities and compulsory use of CCE Co-observation app,

6.2.5 Allocation of requisite resources and commitment for advertisements, awareness generation and capacity building of stakeholders about the Scheme. The detailed planning for the same should be submitted to Central and State Govt .in advance, before the start of each season.

--- Page 19 ---

6.3 Submission of UID (AADHAAR) by farmer:

6.3.1 Adhere has been made mandatory for availing Crop insurance from Kharif 2017 season onwards. Therefore, all banks are advised to mandatorily obtain Adhere number of their farmers and the same applies for non-loanee farmers enrolled through banks /Insurance companies/insurance intermediaries.

6.3.2 Farmers not having Aadhaar Day also enrol under PMFBY subject to their enrolment for Aadhaar and submission of proof of such enrolment as per notification No. 334.dated 8th February, 2017 issued by GOI under Section 7 of Aadhaar Act 2016(Targeted Delivery of Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits and Services). Copy of the notification may be perused on www.pmfby.gov.in. This may be subject to further directions issued by Govt. from time to time.

6.3.3 All banks have to compulsorily take Aadhaar/Aadhaar enrolment number as per notification under Aadhaar Act before sanction of crop loan/KCC under Interest Subvention Scheme .Hence the coverage of loanee farmers without Aadhaar does not arise and such accounts need to be reviewed by the concerned bank branch regularly.

7 Notification

7.1 Procedure for Issuance of Notification by the States/UTs:

7.1.1 Prior to the commencement of the Kharif season, preferably in the beginning of November of previous year, meeting of SLCCCI should be convened for finalising various terms and conditions and calling of bids/issuance of the bid notice to all empanelled Insurance Companies for selection to implement the Scheme during the bid/ risk period. State / UT Govt. should ensure the issuance of the notification and its circulation to all concerned agencies/ departments/ institutions at least one month in advance of the commencement of the crop season incorporating all the essential details about insured crops, areas, Scale of Finance, Sum Insured, Threshold Yield at insurance unit (IU) level for notified crops, period of contract, bidder’s evaluation and selection

--- Page 20 ---

methodology, premium rate for farmers, Govt. subsidy along with seasonality discipline/ cut-off date for each activity etc. Notification should be issued for at least one year to facilitate banks for deduction of premium for a year

7.1.2 In order to have transparency and system driven approach for crop insurance implementation, all the details as mentioned in para7.1.1 above need to be part of the Tender Document and State Notification and no modification in the terms and condition enumerated in the tender document shall be allowed post tendering.

7.1.3 Bidding annexure may be generated through Portal. Procedure and template are available on National Crop Insurance Portal. Before floating the Tender, last 10 years yield data at notified/available level and TY at notified unit should be uploaded on the Portal in the given template and should be made part of the Tender. 

7.1.4 Calculation of lowest weighted premium of district shall be based on the insured areas of notified crops in each district during last year/season. However, in absence of insured area of last year/season for all proposed crops or any crop, net sown area of that crop(s) will be considered for calculation of weighted premium of district. This data will be used for calculationof1only.

7.1.5 Bidding shall be done through e-tendering and work order may be released within 2 weeks of the opening of the Tender.

7.1.6 Depending on the risk profile, historical loss cost and cost benefit analysis for the proposed crop(s) in district(s) of any cluster, if the State Government feels that the premium rate likely to be offered by bidding Insurance Companies would be abnormally high, then the State Govt. can fix a ceiling on premium rates for such crop(s) proposed to be included in the bidding evaluation for the bidding period. However, recur set oath is ceiling provision may be done only in well justified cases and not as a general practice. The ceiling premium rate may be derived

19

--- Page 21 ---

based on statistical evaluation/actuarial premium analysis, loss cost, historical pay out etc and name of such crop should be disclosed by State Govt. compulsorily in the tender document.
7.1.7 In such cases where a ceiling has been indicated, State government must call financial bids in two step bidding or in two separate envelopes. First bid/envelop is for disclosing the premium rate offered by each participating Insurance Company for such ceiling crops and must be categorised under “Ceiling Premium Rate” and 2nd bid envelop is for bidding of crop wise premium rate for all crops included in tender. Time interval for opening of both bid/envelop should be compulsorily mentioned in the bidding documents and should preferably be on the same day. All participating Insurance Companies have to submit the bid offer as per the procedure mentioned above.
7.1.8 State Govt. shall first evaluate first envelop of the bid keeping in view the premium offered by each individual participating Insurance company and if the risk propensity and weather susceptibility of the crop and/or historical claim/loss data doesn’t support the actuarial rates offered by the participating Insurance Companies, such crop(s) may be dropped from the list of proposed crops for notification by the State Government and evaluation for L1 bidder should be done strictly based on the rates offered for left out/remaining crops. The second envelope shall be opened by the State Govt. only after decision on dropping the proposed crops/or accepting the premium rates offered by participating Insurance companies has been taken by the State Govt. If State Govt decides not to drop all proposed crop(s)/ few crops for which premium rate obtained in separate envelop of “Ceiling Premium Rate” from the bidding process, then L1 will be calculated by inclusion of premium offered for all crops/remaining crops.
7.1.9 States should avoid doing re-tendering as a general practice. Re-tendering may be held only in exceptional circumstances and only with the prior approval of GOI after submission of a request with detailed

--- Page 22 ---

reasons. GOI on its part will give its decision within 5 working days of the receipt of the request.

7.1.10 States are required to compulsorily upload Meeting Notices, Tender Documents, Addendums, requisite data and other relevant information on the National Crop Insurance Portal for faster communication and response. Accordingly the subsequent notifications, circulars, directives shall also be uploaded on the Portal as and when issued for wider reach and circulation.

7.1.11 All conditions proposed to be stipulated by State Govt. should be incorporated in bid document itself and no new condition should be included in the notification. In case ICs have any objection to any Tender condition which is in conflict with guidelines, they can make a reference to State govt. with acopytoGOlwithin3daysof issuance of Tender

7.1.12 L1 bidder will not be allowed to withdraw their bid after opening of bids/allotment of work.lf L1 bidder withdraws then financial loss, if any, to the State Govt. Due to retendering/assignment of work to others, due to increase in actuarial premium rate from previously declared L1 rate, and shall be recovered from the withdrawing L1 bidder.

7.2 Notification of Crops, Areas and Implementing Agency (IA) 7.2.1 The Scheme shall operate on the principle of “Area Approach” in the selected defined areas called Insurance Unit (IU). State Govt. /UT will notify crops and defined areas covered during the season in accordance with decision taken in the meeting of SLCCC1. State/UT Govt. should notify Village/Village Panchayat or any other equivalent unit as an insurance unit for major crops defined at District /Taluka or equivalent level. For other crops it may be a unit of size above the level of Village/village Panchayat. For defining a crop as a major crop for deciding the Insurance Unit level, the sown area of that crop should be at least 25% of Gross Cropped Area in a District/Taluka or equivalent level

21

--- Page 23 ---

7.2.2 For the claims arising out of crop damage due to post-harvest losses and localized risks, assessment of damage will be made on individual farm basis as out lined in (Section21, para21.4 and21.5respectively).

7.2.3 SLCCCI will, for the purpose of notification, consider factors such as availability of past yield data based on CCEs for adequate number of years (at least 7 years for calculation of threshold yield), cropped acreage and capacity for estimating yield during proposed season, etc. State govt. should endeavour to cover all the major crops grown in all the districts of the State. States should ensure that a standard methodology of yield estimation exists for all the crops proposed to be notified

7.2.4 State Govt./ UT should provide 10 years’ historical yield data in soft format(in Excel) in English to Insurance Companies for calculation of threshold yield , premium rates etc. at insurance unit area and in its absence, data at next higher unit/nearest neighbouring unit/weighted average of contiguous units, as decided by the SLCCCI shall be used. The level and name of notified area of insurance unit must be part of notification and should be provided at the time of bidding itself.

7.2.5 In case State Govts/UT proposes to notify irrigated and un-irrigated areas under crop separately, they shall ensure that minimum CCEs are planned and conducted for irrigated and un-irrigated crops separately in such areas. In addition, past yield data for requisite number of years will have to be made available separately for both

7.2.6 While notifying the crop(s) where a specific conversion factor is being used for reporting of yield such as in the case of rice/paddy etc., due care should be taken by the State Nodal Department to use the relevant specific nomenclature for disclosure of Average Yield, Threshold Yield and Actual Yield while releasing the Tender Document and submission of Yield data and CCE data for calculation of admissible claims. Insurance Companies will also be responsible for prior scrutiny of Tender document. Information/data provided in Tender document will be

--- Page 24 ---

treated as final and in case of any error/misreporting/disparity, State Govt. And Insurance Company will be equally liable for payment of additional claims arising on account fit, if any.

7.2.7 For the current season or subsequent seasons (in a multi-year contract), the States, if required, can notify additional IUs or de-notify certain IUs subject to maximum deviation of 10% of already notified Us for the crop within a district at the same premium rate, before the cut-off date for debit of premium. If the deviation is >10% or in case of addition of new crop, actuarial premium rate may be worked out either by calculation of weighted average premium rate as prevalent in contiguous districts or by applying appropriate loading on the existing premium rate. The rates for such crops will be determined/ verified by TSU and its decision will be binding on both States and ICs.

7.3 States implementing PMFBY at Village/ Village Panchayat level for major crops shall be entitled for 50% reimbursement of incremental expenses of CCEs and cost of smartphones/ improved technology from GOI. Only eligible items will be considered for reimbursement. The data source for calculation of admissibility of incremental CCEs will be the National Crop Insurance Portal. Notification of Indemnity Level, Average Yield and Threshold Yield

7.3.1 Three levels of Indemnity, viz., 70%, 80% and 90%. SLCCCI in consultation with Insurance Companies shall approve indemnity levels for notified crops at district level. Threshold Yield (TY) shall be notified in the Tender for the current season and the same will be used for claim calculation for that season. The Average Yield of a notified crop in Insurance Unit (IU) will be average yield of best five years out of last seven years. The Threshold yield of the notified crop is equal to Average Yield multiplied by Indemnity level. The Threshold Yield for any crop and IU shall compulsorily be part of the notification for the season and shall not change eat any point during that season.

7.3.2 Calculation and Notification of Threshold Yield: For calculation of

--- Page 25 ---

Threshold Yield, historical average yield of best five out of last seven years shall be considered. Further Threshold Yield should be defined only at notified area level and once notified in the Notification issued by the State should not be changed at later stage under any circumstances. In case of multi-year contract, the Threshold Yield for the subsequent years shall be revised by adding/considering the yield so immediate previous corresponding season. The revised Tying Sum Insured (if revised) should be notified accordingly at the beginning of each crop seasoning case of multi-year tender.

7.4 Notification of Seasonality discipline:

7.4.1 State Govt./ UT in accordance with the broad seasonality defined/prescribed in the Operational Guidelines shall also notify seasonality discipline for various activities under the Scheme viz. submission of insurance proposals/application, consolidated declarations by banks, remittance of premium to Insurance Companies, uploading of individual covered farmer’s data on National Crop Insurance Portal, submission of yield data, claim assessment of losses for(i) standing crop(ii) localized calamities,(iii) prevented sowing, iv) post-harvest losses, (v) On-Account payment for major calamities, etc. as per the provisions of the Scheme. 
*In exceptional cases, where last corresponding season yield data is not available at the time of Bidding/Notification, yield data is to be provided before the harvesting of the current season. However the yield data up to last to last corresponding season should be provided at the time of bidding itself. However, in such cases admissible claims will be anyway calculated on the basis of yield data of last 7yearsonly.

7.5 Notification of Automatic Weather Stations (AWS)

7.5.1 Only those AWS/ARGs of IMD/State Govt. /private agencies should be considered and notified which are as per standards defined by IMD/WMO and are certified and approved by IMD/any agency to be notified by the State/Central govt. These must be optimally operational

--- Page 26 ---

and be able to provide real time weather data. AWS/ARG of private agencies should only be considered in absence of properly functioning AWS/ARGs of IMD/ State Govt. AWS /ARG data sourced for crop insurance should be transferred on real time basis to National Portal. The detailed guidelines for sharing of weather data on the Portal will be circulated separately.

7.5.2 State Govt. can explore the possibility to create dense AWS/ARG network on PPP Mode for which GOI will provide 50% of the viability gap funding.

7.5.3 The following data sources may be used for validation of on account claims and claims for prevented sowing:
• Satellite/UAV Remote Sensing Data
• AWS/ARG Data
• MNCFC Report/Study on drought assessment

7.5.4 State Govt. shall notify concerned weather data provider/ expert agency whose report/ methodology would be used in assessing the extent of losses and computation of claims. Cost of such weather data shall be borne by the concerned Insurance Companies. The notified AWS and ARG should fulfil/ meet the standards/ norms/criteria specified by the concerned authorities from time to time.

8 Engagement of Common Service Centres (CSCs) and Intermediaries for coverage of Non- Loanee Farmers:

8.1 CSCs under Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeITY) have been engaged to enrol on- loanee farmers. The Insurance Companies are required to enter into a separate agreement with CSC and pay service charges as fixed by DAC&FW, GOI per farmer per village per season. No other agreement or payment is required to be made for this purpose. Nodal agency for engagement with Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and Insurance Companies will be CSC-SPV, a company established under Me ITY for carrying out e-governance

--- Page 27 ---

initiatives of Gol.  
8.2 No charges/fee shall be borne or paid by the farmers being enrolled through CSCs i.e. CSC-SPV and CSC-VLE  
8.3 As per IRDA circular, no separate qualification/certification will be required for the VLEs of CSCs to facilitate enrolment of non-loanee farmers.  
8.4 All empanelled Insurance Companies will compulsorily be required to entering to an agreement with CSC for enrolment of non-loanee farmers and for provision of other defined services to farmers.  
8.5 Other designated intermediaries may be linked with the Portal in due course.  
8.6 Empanelled Insurance Companies have to necessarily register on the portal and submit list and details of agents/intermediaries engaged for enrolment of non-loanee farmers in the beginning of each season within 10 days of award of work in the State. Further all agents/intermediaries have to work strictly as per the provisions of the Scheme and IRDA regulations  
9 Electronic Remittance of Funds  
9.1 Govt. Of India and StateGovt .will endeavour to utilize Public Financial Management System(PFMS)/PFMS linked system store mitthe funds to State Govt/agencies  
9.2 Banks, CSC and Insurance Agents are required to remit the premium payment to respective Insurance Company mandatorily through Payment gateway (Pay-Gov) of National Crop Insurance Portal or through RTGS/NEFT followed by mandatory uploading of payment details on National Crop Insurance Portal within stipulated date. Bank details of Insurance Companies shall be made available on National Crop Insurance Portal itself. Accordingly, all Stakeholders including Insurance Companies, Bank branches, CSC and Insurance Agents must compulsorily maintain dedicated bank accounts for this purpose. No remittance /financial transaction in the form of Banker’s cheque/Demand Draft

--- Page 28 ---

will bellow.
9.3 Insurance companies will be provided login access to the essential crop notification data/information along with farmer level coverage data including banking details of individual farmers on the National Crop Insurance Portal to reconcile, verify, validate and calculate payable claims and remit the same directly into pre-declared bank accounts linked to the National Crop Insurance Portal.
10 Census Code Mapping of Entities;
10.1 All States shall map census codes of their villages with the higher administrative/revenue units like Gram Panchayat, Firkas, Patwar Circles, Revenue Circles, Hoblis, Mandals, Blocks, Tehsils, Talukas, Districts and Automatic Weather Stations/Backup Weather Stations. This will create a standard mechanism of mapping and identification across the country.
10.2 Further, for purposes of obtaining accurate location, State Govts. must also provide geo coded (latitude. & longitude) village maps on digital format for integration with other Apps like CCEs Agri App, Loss reporting /Assessment App etc.
11 Digitization of Land Records
11.1 State Govts. are advised to digitize their revenue records using village Census codes so that the individual land records of farmers can be accessed through the National Crop Insurance Portal for crop insurance. This will help the Govt. to reach and identify individual beneficiaries and bring utmost transparency and authenticity in benefit transfer.
12 Sum Insured/Coverage Limit
12.1 Sum Insured per hectare for both loanee and non-loanee farmers will be same and equal to the Scale of Finance as decided by the DLTC/SLTC, and would be pre-declared by SLCCCI and notified. No other calculation of Scale of Finance will be applicable. Sum Insured for individual farmer is equal to the SOF per hectare multiplied by area of the notified crop proposed by the farmer for insurance. Area under cultivation shall always be expressed in hectare’.
27

--- Page 29 ---

12.2 In cases where crops are separately notified under irrigated, un-irrigated category by State Govts. Sum insured for irrigated and un-irrigated are as should be separately indicated.  
13 Premium Rate sand Premium Subsidy  
13.1 The Actuarial Premium Rate (APR) would be charged under PMFBY by implementing Insurance Company. The rate of premium payable by the farmer will be as per the following Table 1:

| Season | Crops | Maximum Premium payable by farmer (% of Sum Insured)*
| --- | --- | --- |
| Kharif | All food grain and Oilseeds crops (all Cereals, Millets, Pulses and Oilseeds crops) | 2.0% of SIor Actuarial rate, which everislless
| Rabi | All food grain and Oilseeds crops (all Cereals, Millets, Pulses and oilseeds) | 1.5% of SIor Actuarial rate, which everislless
| Kharif and Rabi | Annual Commercial/Annual Horticultural crops | 5% of SIor Actuarial rate, which everislless
| Rabi | Perennial horticultural crops (pilot basis) | 5% of SIor Actuarial rate, which everislless

*Premium paidby nonloaneefarmersshouldberoundedoffinRupee terms

13.2 Payment of Govt. Subsidy:  
a. The difference between Actuarial Premium Rate and the rate of Insurance premium payable by farmers shall be treated as Rate of Normal Premium Subsidy, which shall be shared equally by the Centre and State Govts. However, the State/ UT Govts. are free to extend additional subsidy over and above the normal subsidy from its budget. In other words, additional subsidy, if any shall be borne entirely by the State/ UT Govt. Subsidy in premium is allowed only to the extent of Sum Insured.

b. Govt. premium subsidy to the Private empanelled Insurance Companies may be routed through Agricultural Insurance Company (AIC) or any agency designated by GOI strictly as per the guidelines/order of the

--- Page 30 ---

Govt. This may be reviewed later by Central Govt. and changed accordingly if necessary .Accordingly, AIC/other designated agency is empowered to call/collect all requisite information related to implementation of the Scheme and utilization of Govt. Funds and to share the same with the Govt for better planning, implementation and monitoring of the Scheme. The premium subsidy will be routed through PFMS/PFMS linked systems strictly based on the MIS generated through National Crop Insurance Portal.

c. Govt, both Centre and State, will release their share of advance subsidy (First Instalment) equivalent to 50% of 80% of their respective share of subsidy in corresponding previous season subject to fulfilment to General Financial Rule(GFR)/guidelines in the matter without waiting for coverage details for the ongoing season.

d. To facilitate settlement of prevented risk/ mid-season adversity/localized claims: ICs should release thread miscible claim amount to the beneficiary immediately after receipt to farmers premium and advance subsidy (1st Instalment) and without waiting for release of final subsidy (Second Instalment) from Govt. The premium in respect of affected IUs including subsidy to enable settlement of claims arising due to above events in respect of all such beneficiaries shall be adjusted from the fund already available with ICs as advance upfront subsidy (First Instalment) to facilitate compliance of Section 64B of Insurance Act/Regulation of IRDAI

e. All admissible claims based on Yield data/Post harvest losses will be settled on receipt of second instalment of Govt. subsidy to be paid on the basis of tentative business statistics generated on the portal after 15 days of period specified for auto approval of applications on the Portal. The remaining Govt. Subsidy, if any will be paid after reconciliation of all business statistics for the season on portal.

f. All empanelled insurance companies including private insurance

--- Page 31 ---

companies shall provide free access to the Central/State level agencies including CAG authorized to verify the accounts and audit in respect of Crop Insurance.

g. In case, the State Govt. subsidizes full farmers’ share of premium, in that case a token amount of atleast Re.1 should compulsorily be charged from the farmer to facilitate electronic tracking.

h. State Govt. has to release the States are of premium subsidy within 3 months from premium requisition by concerned Insurance Company failing which 1% interest per month shall be levied as penalty on the State govt.

13.3 Payment of Claim Liabilities:

a. Insurance company shall take all necessary steps to take appropriate reinsurance cover for their portfolio in order to safeguard insured’s interest. In case premium to claims ratio exceeds 1:3.5 or percentage of Sum Insured exceeds 35%, whichever is higher, at the National Level in a crop season, then Govt. will provide protection to Insurance Companies. The losses exceeding the abovementioned level in the crop season would be met from equal contribution of the Central Govt. and the concerned State/UT Govts. In case losses are below the above mentioned condition, insurers shall be responsible to settle head miss blew claims.

14 Budget for Administrative Expenses

14.1 At least 2% of the total budget for PMFBY shall be earmarked by State/UTs for administrative expenses, publicity, yield/loss assessment expenses, purchase of smart phones, adoption of new technology, setting up of State Technical Support Unit(STSU), travelling and contingency fund.

14.2 Govt. of India has already made provisions for separate allocations under sub heads like Salaries, Domestic Travel Expenses, and Technology interventions, Office Expenses, other Administrative

--- Page 32 ---

Expenses and Professional Services etc. for Crop Insurance program under PMFBY/RWBCIS. States should make provisions and budgetary allocation on similar lines including subhead for incremental cost of CCEs.

15       Technical Support Unit(TSU)/CPMU

15.1     National Technical Support Unit (NTSU) or Central Program Management Unit (CPMU) will be created at the Central level at the earliest to provide support and advise on risk classification & rating, development of new products, methodology for loss assessment, legal works, workshop/training &capacity building, along with use of technology including innovation/replication, digitisation of administration of Schemes through Crop Insurance Portal etc.

15.2     NTSU shall calculate Loss Cost (LC) i.e. Claims as percentage (%) of Sum Insured (SI) observed in case of notified crop(s) in notified unit area of insurance during the preceding 10 similar crop seasons (Kharif/Rabi) along with approximate actuarial premium rate of the crops proposed to be notified for the season. This loss cost/premium rate shall be based on the latest available yield data in month of January for Kharif crops and July for Rabi crops and shall be provided to DAC & FW/Concerned States on request before invitation for premium bidding. This calculation to be done by NTSU on behalf of DAC & FW is only for official purposes to have information on the approximate cost to the IA for covering the risks so as to evaluate the bids in proper perspective.

15.3     National Technical Support Unit (NTSU) may also develop a suitable methodology for risk classification/ premium rating by using historical yield data, weather data, use and level of inputs/irrigation/technology in crop cultivation, remote sensing data/information etc. for standardization of methodology for risk perception and premium rating for crop insurance in the country.

15.4     In addition to National Technical Support Unit (NTSU) / Central Programme Management Unit (CPMU) at Central level, all States/UTs implementing Schemes should also create a separate TSU/PMU at State

--- Page 33 ---

HQ level with sufficient technical experts/staff to ensure proper implementation of the Scheme. State TSU (STSU) may also opt for members on contractual/temporary basis or takes services of other organizations/research institutes etc. as deemed fit. However, States shall have to allocate a separate budget for running the STSU.

RASHTRIYA KRISHI VIKAS YOJANA (RKVY)

Objective: Various developmental programmes under RKVY have been launched in the year 2007-08 with the objective of achieving at least 4 % growth in agriculture. Since then, different programmes are being implemented in project mode suiting the regional priorities for achieving the desired growth in this sector.

On Going Projects

• Bringing Green Revolution To Eastern India (BGREI)
• E-Pest Surveillance

New Projects in Pipeline

• Value Chain Establishment of NPM Based High Value Paddy for rural prosperity 
• Providing technical support to Extension workers under RKVY
• Extension of Special Programme for Promotion of Integrated Farming in tribal areas of Malkangiri District
• Extension of Special Programme for Promotion of Integrated Farming in tribal areas of Koraput District
• Extension of Special Programme for Promotion of Integrated Farming in tribal areas of Gajapati District
• Extension of Special Programme for Promotion of Integrated Farming in tribal areas of Rayagada District
• Construction of RCC Lining Jute Retting Tank under RKVY

32

--- Page 34 ---

• Quality Seed System, Technology, and Market functions through farmer collectives for Agricultural Intensification and enhanced farmer's income in Odisha.

STATE SECTOR SCHEMES

MUKHYAMANTRI KRUSHI UDYOG YOJANA

A. PREAMBLE

Government of Odisha have launched MKUY w.e.f. 01.06.2018 which envisages ease of doing agribusiness through process simplification of Commercial Agri-Enterprises (CAE) and implementation modalities by making it simple, transparent, time bound at all stages for the benefit of the farmers especially agri-entrepreneurs.

Capital Investment Subsidy will be provided to the Agro-entrepreneurs for setting up of Commercial Agri-Enterprises under Mukhyamantri Krushi UdyogYojana (MKUY) under State Agriculture Policy.

B. VISION

To promote setting up of Commercial Agri-Enterprises in creating income and employment opportunities in the State of Odisha under agriculture and allied sectors.

C. PATTERN OF ASSISTANCE

The assistance for establishment of Commercial Agri-Enterprises in Odisha are as under:

▪ 40% of the fixed capital investment (excluding the cost of the land) subject to a maximum limit of 50.00 lakh for general entrepreneurs.

▪ 50% of the fixed capital investment (excluding the cost of the land) subject to a maximum limit of

33

--- Page 35 ---

50.00 lakh for SC/ST/Women/Persons with Disabilities (PwD)/Graduates of Agriculture and Allied Disciplines.

Group of individuals like registered FPOs, FPCs, FPGs, NGOs, SHGs, PACS, LAMPCS, Farmers Cooperative Societies (including agricultural/ allied sectors) and Apex Federations such as OMFED, OPOLFED, FISHFED and Companies registered under Companies Act 2013 etc. will be eligible for availing CIS to the tune of 40% limited to Rs. 50.00 lakh. If all members of the entity are women/ SC/ST/PwD/ Graduates in Agriculture and allied discipline, then they will be entitled for CIS @ 50% limited to Rs. 50.00 lakh.

Subsidy upper limit of Rs. 50.00 lakhs under MKUY is for one entrepreneur / family as a whole. Family shall mean a family unit consisting of the individual concerned, his or her spouse, their unmarried sons, daughters and married sons and dependent parents as per the Odisha Public Distribution System (Control) Order, 2016. The entrepreneur has to provide a self-declaration on the list of his / her family members and declare that he/she or his/her family members have not availed subsidy amounting to Rs. 50.0 lakh under MKUY including the current subsidy claim.

D. ELIGIBLE BENEFICIARY

Any individual, partnership enterprise, body of individuals, registered FPOs, FPCs, FPGs, NGOs, SHGs, PACS, LAMPCS, Farmers Cooperative Societies and Apex Federations such as OMFED, OPOLFED, FISHFED and Companies registered under Companies Act 2013 etc. are eligible for availing CIS. In case of Group applicants, two office bearers duly authorized by the Executive Body will act as the applicants for CIS. The individual applicant / group of applicants shall have the project land in the name of the entrepreneur (s) / spouse or leased in land for a period of minimum 15 years in the state of Odisha with a valid AADHAR. However entrepreneurs undertaking cage culture fisheries in reservoirs will be eligible to available subsidy under MKUY based on lease period allowed under the cage culture policy of State Government. Persons who are not residents of Odisha will be eligible to establish agro-enterprises.

The minimum age of the entrepreneur as on the date of online application is 18 years.

34

--- Page 36 ---

One can establish more than one enterprise across different sectors and will be eligible to avail another new project after 1 year of successful management of the previous unit(s) subject to the subsidy limit of Rs.50.0 lakh per beneficiary.

E. ELIGIBLE ENTERPRISES 
Capital Investment Subsidy will be provided to the Agro- entrepreneurs for setting up new Agri-Enterprises relating to agriculture and allied activities including food processing and generating net income of Rs.2.00 lakh per annum except the negative list as detailed below: 
o Units for cutting raw tobacco and sprinkling for chewing purposes and Gudakhu manufacturing units, etc. 
o Any field crop having less than one year duration under normal condition. 
o Integrated Rice mill. 
o Gobar gas (Bio gas) plant for harnessing energy. 
However a list of 92 areas is at Annexure-XII which is illustrative only. Apart from that new agro based enterprises can be taken up after approval by the SLC. Land based activities such as seed production, papaya, banana, pineapple etc (short duration crops / herbs /annual/biennial fruit / vegetable / medicinal / aromatic / flower crops having less than 5 years of economic life span in open condition will not be eligible for CIS. CIS is also allowed for expansion/modernization of existing enterprises after one year of completion and successful operation of the earlier enterprise. CIS is allowed for taking up activities in the existing infrastructure owned by the entrepreneur if suitable and adequate for the purpose. But the cost of such infrastructure shall not be included in the project cost. The entrepreneur can take up the activities in rented premises also, but CIS will not be available for such rented premises. The entrepreneur has to make a registered agreement for availing the premises on rent for a minimum period of 5 years. Projects established without prior approval of DLC will not be considered for CIS. The total subsidy per entrepreneur should not be more than the subsidy capping of Rs.50.0 lakh.

F. FINANCING OF THE PROJECTS 
Self-financing Commercial Agri-Enterprises shall be allowed up to project cost of Rs.10.00 lakh. For projects costing more than 10.00 lakh, financing by financial institutions i.e. banks for credit linkage i.e. term loan / overdraft is mandatory for minimum 10% of the project cost. However Bank has to evaluate the entire project for release of CIS.

35

--- Page 37 ---

G. COMPLETION PERIOD
The scheduled completion period of the project will be maximum 2 years from the date of issue of Go Ahead Letter. However, in case of inordinate delay by the financing institution, the period will be extended beyond 2 years i.e. maximum one year from the date of sanction of loan or the stipulated 2 years whichever is later. In case of delay in execution of the project beyond stipulated period, 20% of CIS will be deducted from the eligible subsidy amount in case of completion delayed upto 6 months and 50% will be deducted from eligible CIS in case of delay in completion beyond 6 months to one year. No subsidy will be provided in case the project completion is delayed beyond one year.

H. COMMENCEMENT OF OPERATION
The revised guidelines shall be deemed to have come into operation with effect from the date of notification. The formats may be revised by APICOL from time to time. However, the guidelines may be modified/changed by the State Level Committee (SLC) with approval of Govt. in Department of Agriculture & Farmers' Empowerment.

I. NODAL AGENCY
The Agricultural Promotion and Investment Corporation of Odisha Limited (APICOL) under the Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Empowerment is the Nodal Agency for implementation of this programme.

J. IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
The district level line department officers like Chief District Agriculture Officer (CDAO), Chief District Veterinary Officer (CDVO), Deputy Director Horticulture (DDH), Executive Engineer (Agriculture) and District Fisheries Officer (DFO) will implement the programme at the district level. The Block level line department officers (BLOs) like Block Veterinary Officer (BVO)/Additional Veterinary Asst. Surgeon (AVAS) in absence of BVO, Block Agriculture Officer (BAO) /Asst. Agriculture Officer (AAO), Asst. Horticulture Officer (AHO), Asst. Fisheries Officer (AFO) and the Asst. Agricultural Engineer (AAE) in charge of concerned Block, in case of Agro Service Centre (ASC) will verify the DPR and issue feasibility report of the proposed CAE uploaded by the entrepreneur for the cases where the security deposit has been made through payment gateway. In case of Integrated farming projects, all concerned BLOs will visit the site jointly with BVO/AVAS as coordinator. BVO/AVAS will submit the feasibility

36

--- Page 38 ---

report to the CDAO through CDVO after observing due formalities. The BLOs will periodically monitor the execution process and upload the photograph in the portal.

K. DISTRICT NODAL OFFICER
The concerned District Level Officer of Agriculture and allied Departments relating to their projects will act as the default Dist. Nodal Officer (DNO). The Chief District Agriculture Officer (CDAO) of a particular district will function as DNO in respect of projects related to Agriculture, Food Processing, Integrated Farming, Agro industries, etc. The Executive Engineer (Agril) will be the DNO for Agro- Service Centre (ASC). Similarly projects related to Horticulture, Fisheries and Animal Husbandry, the concerned Dist. Level Officer like Dy. Director Horticulture (DDH), District Fishery Officer (DFO) and Chief District Veterinary Officer (CDVO), respectively will be the DNO. The designation of the DNOs / BLOs will be renamed as per the renaming in the parent Department.

L. PROJECT REPORT
The project report should have been prepared by APICOL, a Chartered Accountant, O.U.A.T. or any Institute of Government of India/ Government of Odisha or by a Consultancy professional approved by APICOL or concerned line Department Officers. The DPR needs to be countersigned by the concerned DNO.

M. PROJECT COST
The project cost of each enterprise may vary and there is no fixed limit due to variation in type, size, capacity etc of the projects. The consultant while preparing the DPR will adopt the OPWD schedule of rates for civil constructions. In case of irrigation equipment’s, the rates provided in the Rules for Private Lift Irrigation Points shall be adopted. In the case of Micro Irrigation Systems the rates approved by the Director of Horticulture shall be adopted. Similarly for plants, trees, birds, animals, the scale of finance and rates as approved by NABARD/Line Department/ NHB shall be adopted. In case of protected cultivation, the rates of MIDH / NHB shall be adopted. Model DPRs reflected in the APICOL website indicating capital investment and financial analysis may be taken for reference. The cost of land should not be included in the project cost.

N. SANCTIONING COMMITTEES
1. State Level Committee (SLC)

--- Page 39 ---

There will be a Joint State Level Committee (SLC) consisting of the following members to consider proposals for sanction of Capital Investment Subsidy for the projects costing more than 1.00 crore. Any modification in the guidelines looking at the changing scenario will be at the disposal of the State Level Committee (SLC).

a) Secretary to Govt. of Odisha Agriculture & FE Deptt Chairman

b) Secretary to Govt. of Odisha, F & ARD. Deptt Co-Chairman

c) Secretary to Govt. of Odisha, Member

d) Finance Deptt. or his/ her Nominee

e) Director of Agriculture & FP, Odisha Member

f) Director of Horticulture, Odisha Member

g) Director, Soil Conservation & WD, Odisha Member

h) Director of AH & VS, Odisha Member

i) Director of Fisheries, Odisha Member

j) Director, Industries, Odisha Member

k) Managing Director, IPICOL Member

l) Managing Director, APICOL Member Convener

2. Sub-Committee

The Chairman of the State Level Committee may, if he/she thinks expedient to do so, authorize a sub-committee to exercise any of the powers and functions of the State Level Committee, provided that the decision of the sub-committee shall be placed before the State Level Committee at their next meeting for approval.

3. District Level Committee (DLC)

The DLC of MKUY is amalgamated /united with the District Level Committee of DIC held under the Chairmanship of Collector and District Magistrate. All District Level Officers of Agriculture & Allied departments will be the members of the committee. The Nodal Managers of the banks willing to finance MKUY project will be called to the DLC. The Bank sanction letter should clearly specify the Aadhaar linked Term Loan Account No., to which the CIS to be credited when released by APICOL. The District Manager, APICOL will be the Member-Convener of the DLC.

38

--- Page 40 ---

The submitted DPRs concerning to the projects of different line Departments will be placed before the DLC for deliberation and consequential issue of go-ahead by the Dist. Nodal Officer for execution of the projects irrespective of project cost. The Committee shall go into merits of each case to decide whether the project qualifies for grant of Capital Investment Subsidy or not. The minutes of the meeting duly approved by the Chairman shall be circulated to all concerned members and MD, APICOL. Projects established without prior approval of DLC will not be considered for CIS. The proposals against which Go ahead has been issued as per the recommendation of DLC, need to be placed again before DLC for sanction of subsidy after completion of the unit. Thereafter DNO will submit the detail proposal to APICOL for release of CIS. 

O. IMPLEMENTATION MODALITIES

1. The portal for online application for establishment of CAE is https://apicol.nic.in. The prospective entrepreneur has to submit an application on-line in prescribed form (Annexure-I) to the Block Level Officer enclosing all the details of capital investment in the Project Report summary format (Annexure-II). The said application form will be available on-line at https://apicol.nic.in. The information pertaining to feasibility report like road connectivity, electrification, distance from nearby village shall be furnished by the entrepreneur as a part of DPR. Security deposit of Rs.10,000/- has to be paid through online payment gateway.

2. The application will be viewed online by the BLO. After receipt of application from entrepreneur, the BLO shall verify the application and security deposit of Rs.10,000/-. In case of any discrepancy BLO shall revert back the application to the entrepreneur within 5 working days for compliance. An auto generated alert message/email will be sent to the applicant. After receipt of the compliance from the entrepreneur, the BLO will visit the farm site with the entrepreneur, verify the relevant land records, electricity connectivity, irrigation source, road connectivity etc. and take a GPS photograph of the site in a mobile app and upload in the web portal. He/ She will upload and submit the feasibility report (Annexure-III) in the web portal within 15 days. In case of credit linked Projects, the BLO and Branch Manager of the willing bank has to make a joint visit to the project site before giving the feasibility report. The Bank Manager has to attach the Credit Information Bureau (India) Limited (CIBIL) report of the entrepreneur (wherever applicable).

3. Upon receipt of the proposal along with feasibility report from the BLO online, the concerned Dist. Nodal Officer will process and review the same and retrieve the

--- Page 41 ---

land records from Bhulekh. The DNO may carry out on the spot verification of the proposal and interact with the entrepreneur personally, if deemed necessary. Once the DNO is satisfied, he/she shall upload his/her recommendation. The recommendation will be either (a) recommended or (b) not recommended. In not recommended cases, he/she will upload the reasons for rejection in three points and maximum 50 characters within 15 days of receipt of the proposal. For all recommended cases an alert message will be sent to the Chairman, DLC to fix up a date for meeting. An alert message will also be sent to the District Manager, APICOL -cum- Member Convener, DLC to convene the meeting.

4. DLC should sit every month as decided by the Chairman. All proposals will be placed by the DNOs before DLC for consideration. The Chairman, DLC will have maximum 4 (four) options to change the date of DLC meeting in a month.

5. The District Manager, APICOL-cum- Convener, DLC will prepare the proceedings and get it signed from Chairman, DLC within 3 working days. He/ She will tick “OK” online on the day of approval of the proceedings after which the Go Ahead Letter will be auto-generated within 7days. The Go Ahead letter is to be uploaded in the website with the seal & full signature of the DNO. Thereafter the DNO will send the application along with Go-ahead letter to the financing bank for sanction of loan.

6. The entrepreneur will get Go Ahead within a maximum of 60 days from the date of online application completed in all respect. SMS alert will be issued to all the stakeholders like entrepreneur, BLO, DNO, CDAO, District Manager, APICOL-cum- Member Convener, DLC, Collector and APICOL. It will be reflected in citizen view. The specimen copy of go-ahead letter is enclosed at Annexure-III.

7. In rejected proposals, SMS will be sent to the entrepreneur with reasons of rejection. Security deposit shall be refunded automatically through payment gateway with message to APICOL.

8. In case of non-delivery of assigned task by the BLO, DNO, District Manager, APICOL and CDAO within the stipulated period, an alert message will be sent to next higher level for taking necessary action. The concerned Directors of the line departments have been provided with online window to monitor the progress and

--- Page 42 ---

take appropriate action.
9. Online / cheques payment to the parties may be done by the entrepreneur to maintain transparency. The mode of payment of cost of dairy animals worth Rs.50,000/- or more shall be done through online / cheques.
10. After completion of the project, the entrepreneur will put a display board indicating name of the scheme (MKUY), implementing agency, name of the entrepreneur, project cost etc in a visible location of the project. The application for release of Capital Investment Subsidy shall be made by the Entrepreneur in the prescribed format Annexure-IV indicating investment made towards electrification, water supply, equipment and machineries along with the detailed estimate of civil construction prepared by one Assistant Engineer to the District Nodal Officer and Lending Bank (in institutional finance cases) along with geo-tagged photograph, who in turn will take steps for evaluation of the project. He/ She will upload all relevant bills & vouchers in DNO site after due verification by DNO. The completion- cum-subsidy application form submitted by the entrepreneur in prescribed format will be approved by the DNO online after visiting the project site and approval by DLC. The completion papers will be forwarded to the lending Bank for action at their level.

P. VALUATION OF PROJECT

1. Self-finance projects: The valuation of completed projects will be done by the Dist. Nodal Officer and one Engineer not below the rank of Asst. Engineer of any Government Department (Agriculture, PWD, RD, RWSS, OLIC, OAIC, WR, PR Dept. etc. of the concerned district) in the format at Annexure-V.

2. Institutional finance projects: The valuation of completed projects will be done by the concerned financing institution through an approved value duly countersigned by the Branch Manager.

3. The concerned officer will adopt the OPWD schedule of rates for valuation of civil constructions. In case of irrigation equipment, he/ she will adopt the rates provided in the Rules for Private Lift Irrigation points. In the case of Micro Irrigation Systems he/she will adopt the rates approved by the Director of Horticulture. In the case of plants, trees, birds, animals, the scale of finance / rates as approved by NABARD/Line Department/ NHB will be adopted. In case of 41

--- Page 43 ---

protected cultivation he/ she will adopt the rates of MIDH/ NHB. For plantation based projects (perennial crops), the cost of infrastructure and planting materials will be considered as Capital Investment.

4. The evaluation report will be filled up by the evaluator based upon the detailed valuation for civil construction, authenticate bills and vouchers with GSTIN for the investment (except the Civil construction and exempted items like cost of planting materials, layer poultry birds, dairy animals etc.) made towards electrification, cultivation expenses, water supply and equipment/machinery.

5. The working capital cannot be included as capital cost for the purpose of CIS assessment.

6. The entrepreneur will furnish a self-declaration that the materials for which vouchers have been submitted has been utilized in the concerned project.

7. The entrepreneur will submit a subsidy non-availing certificate which should not include the interest subvention availed under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund / Fisheries and Aquaculture Development Fund / Animal Husbandry Infrastructure Development Fund of Govt of India.

8. CT &GST Compliance: The bills and vouchers with GSTIN (except the civil construction and GST exempted items like cost of planting materials, fingerlings, poultry birds, dairy animals etc.) submitted by the entrepreneur has to be complied by CT & GST before release of CIS.

42

--- Page 44 ---

a) In case of entrepreneurs registered under GSTIN, all the following 4 points are to be complied with.

   i. Whether return in GSTR-3B is filed by the supplier. 

   ii. Whether transaction appears in GSTR-2A of the entrepreneur. 

   iii. Whether the supplier is having a valid GSTIN. 

   iv. Matching of the bill amount with GSTR-2A return. 

b) In case of entrepreneur not registered under GST, only the point no. i & iii are to be complied. 

c) When the supplier is a composite tax payer, transaction is not verifiable. 

d) When the articles are purchased from abroad, no information is available in above 4 points (i, ii, iii & iv). 

e) The bills and vouchers with these two criteria (c & d) are also to be considered while calculating CIS. 

For Projects within 1.00 Crore

1. The DNO will upload the scanned copy of the evaluation report (Annexure-V) obtained from the Branch Manager in institutional finance cases and prepared by himself/herself in self-financed cases in the portal. The evaluation report (Annexure-V) so uploaded by the DNO is final at his/ her end. No further corrections at DNO level will be entertained. 

2. The DNO will prepare a broad component wise (i.e. civil construction, electrification, water supply, machineries & equipment, plants / livestock, insurance and miscellaneous expenses) comparative statement (Annexure-VI) of capital investment reflected in project report (Annexure-II), the evaluation report (Annexure-V) and authentic bills and vouchers with GSTIN as well as detailed estimate submitted by an Assistant Engineer of the concerned district/approved Valuer. The lowest of the three will be considered as the eligible capital investment.

3. The District Nodal Officer will generate the subsidy release certificate online (Annexure-VIII) after approval of the subsidy amount by the DLC. Then he/ she will submit all the relevant documents on line to MD, APICOL. He/ She will also upload the agreement (Annexure-VII) executed by the entrepreneur with the DNO on non-judicial stamp paper worth Rupees hundred signed by both in all pages. He/ She will also send signed copies of all the documents (hard copies) as per check list (Annexure-XI) to APICOL for purpose of audit. APICOL after verification of documents and compliance of CT & GST shall release the CIS directly to the bank account of entrepreneur in self-finance cases and to the concerned financing bank for adjustment against the term loan account in bank finance cases.

--- Page 45 ---

For Projects above 1.00 Crore & upto 20.00 Crore

1. The DNO will submit the required documents to APICOL after approval of the subsidy amount by the DLC. On receipt of the CIS proposal, evaluation of the project will be done in Annexure-V by the State Level Evaluation Team (SLET). At present the SLET comprises with the following members:

a) Chief Engineer, DA & FP (O)        Chairman
b) LDM of the district                       Member
c) Sr. Scientist of the concerned subject / Head, OUAT, KVK    Member
d) Finance Head of APICOL           Member
e) Concerned line Department Officer from APICOL / Departmental Experts from Government    Member Convener

The Chief Engineer may delegate the Chairmanship to one of his/her Superintending Engineer (SE) as the Team Head, but he/she will countersign the SLET report. In case of Cuttack and Khordha districts, as OUAT has no KVK, it will be represented by KVK, Jajpur and KVK, Puri respectively. After receiving the evaluation report from SLET, APICOL will prepare agenda and convene the SLC meeting as per the date and time fixed by the Chairman for sanction of subsidy.

2. After discussion in the SLC and approval of the same, the MD, APICOL will log in through their respective user-ID and Password and approve the particular project on line for disbursal of subsidy. He/ she will also sign the auto generated subsidy sanction certificate (Annexure-VIII). An agreement (Annexure-VII) to be executed by the entrepreneur with the MD, APICOL on non-judicial stamp paper worth Rupees One Hundred signed by both in all pages before release of the CIS. Then CIS will be released directly to the bank account of entrepreneur to the concerned financing bank for adjustment against the term loan account.

For Projects above 20.00 Crore
Projects having project cost of more than Rs. 20.00 crore, shall not be eligible under MKUY.

Q. ASSESSMENT OF FIXED CAPITAL

1. Land: No subsidy will be paid on cost of land. The land on which the CAE is proposed to be set up should be

--- Page 46 ---

a) In the name of Entrepreneur/Group/Company/Partners, or

b) Leased in from owner/ RoR holder infavour of entrepreneur /Group /Company / partners for a period of minimum 15 years through a registered lease deed. If the premise is availed on rent, there should be registered rent agreement for a period of minimum 5 years.

R. DISBURSEMENT OF CAPITAL INVESTMENT SUBSIDY

1. Capital Investment Subsidy will be disbursed after the unit is completed, trial production made in case of manufacturing units and completion of the project in all other cases. For projects other than manufacturing units the date of completion would mean the date on which investment on building, plant and machinery has been actually completed but would not include investment on maintenance on subsequent years.

2. The date of trial production/completion of the project would be as certified by the Dist. Nodal Officer.

3. The entrepreneur shall be required to execute an agreement with the District Nodal Officer/MD, APICOL as per Annexure-VII before release of subsidy i.e. at the time of submission subsidy release certificate.

The amount of subsidy provided in the budget will be placed with APICOL and will be released to the Financing Institution (in case of projects financed by them) / Entrepreneurs directly to his/ her Bank Account (in case of self-financing Cases) after due sanction by the Competent Authority.

Access shall be provided to Bankers at least at two levels i.e. HO level and Zonal level to facilitate credit monitoring. Edit option for change of banks will be provided to the DNO. Subsidy will be calculated as per guidelines and released into the Aadhar linked bank account of the entrepreneur / loan account of the entrepreneur maintained at the financing bank by APICOL.

S. DISBURSEMENT OF SECURITY MONEY

The Security Money of Rs.10,000/- deposited along with online application will be refunded at the time of disbursal of Capital Investment Subsidy into the bank account of the entrepreneur. It will also be refunded to the entrepreneurs in all non-execution cases.

T. AUDIT

The accounts maintained by APICOL shall be submitted to the Government of Odisha within 4 months from the date of financial year ending. The A.G., Odisha on receipt of such reports will cause audit of the accounts.

45

--- Page 47 ---

U. RECOVERY OF CAPITAL INVESTMENT SUBSIDY
Where an Enterprise in the opinion of the State Level Committee/ District Level Committee has availed the CIS by misrepresentation of facts or by furnishing false and misleading information or suppressing any information, cessation of the unit/changing the site of the unit prior to the period mentioned in the agreement (Annexure-VII), the subsidy will be recovered as arrears of land revenue under OPDR Act.

Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA)
The State Cabinet in their 65th meeting held on 21st December, 2018 have approved the proposal for Package for Farmers’ Welfare – Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation (KALIA)to further accelerate agricultural prosperity and reduce poverty in the State. This scheme is progressive and inclusive. It covers 92% of the cultivators, loaned as well as non-loanee farmers, share croppers (actual cultivators) and landless agriculture labourers. It also specifically takes care of vulnerable agricultural families identified through Gram Panchayats, and makes crop loans available at 0% interest.

Introduction: Agriculture remains a prime mover of the socio- economic wellbeing of a majority of the population in the State with more than 60% work force depending on it for their livelihood. Odisha has achieved sharpest decline of 24.61 % in poverty levels among major States in the Country between 2004-05 and 2011-12. Nearly 8 million households have been brought above the poverty line during this period. Further reduction in poverty would require concerted efforts to bring vulnerable households engaged in the primary sector out of poverty. This would entail direct attack on poverty by way of massive investment in this sector and making benefits reach the most needy through Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) mode.

Background:
From being a State doing subsistence agriculture Odisha has made rapid strides in becoming a progressive State in agriculture. The production and productivity of rice has more than doubled since 2001- 02. Similar achievements have been noticed in case of other crops, vegetables and fruits. The annual milk and egg production in the State 2 has increased more than 2.8 times and 3.2 times respectively between 2001-02 and 2017-2018. Similarly, the meat production has increased about 5 times and fish production has increased more than 2.5 times during this period. Total annual shrimp and sea food export from Odisha has also increased more than 4.2 times over this period. It is the

--- Page 48 ---

only State in the country which has doubled the farmers’ income in real terms over a decade. The productivity gains in agriculture in our state has been recognised at the national level with conferment of 5 Krishi Karman Awards in 7 years. The Government has consistently been proactive for the cause of the farmers and development of agriculture in the State. In fact, Odisha is one of the first States to have an exclusive budget for agriculture and farmers’ empowerment since 2013-14. The outlay for this sector has increased over 2.5 times since then. We have also constituted an Agriculture Cabinet to deliberate and decide on critical issues concerning the agriculture sector. The new Agriculture Policy formulated in 2013 provides for attractive incentives for agriculture and allied sector activities. The State Government is providing loans at 1% interest for farmers. More than 1 lakh Joint Liability Groups comprising mainly share-croppers have been provided institutional credit. Odisha had targeted to cover 10 lakh hectares of additional agriculture land under irrigation over a period of 5 years. Odisha is well on way to achieve this target by March 2019. Among the recent initiatives, Odisha Millets Mission has been launched to cover rained areas in 14 tribal dominated districts; and the Organic Farming Policy has been formulated for undertaking certified organic cultivation in over 2 lakh hectares.

Farmers Data: As per the census 2011, there are 32.80 lakh cultivators & 24.20 lakh agricultural labourers who are dependent on agriculture as their main occupation, having worked for the major part of the reference period i.e. 6 months or more in the agriculture/ allied sectors. Out of the total cultivators about 30.1 lakh (92%) are small and marginal farmers.

Direct Benefits Transfer: The experience of direct transfer of subsidies to the accounts of beneficiaries was analysed. It was seen that this would make funds immediately available to the farmers. It ensures that the targeted beneficiaries get the funds, and the farmers have the freedom to utilize the cash in the most appropriate manner as they decide to do. A 3 larger number of families can be assisted in the process since it is no longer restricted to only those who have taken loans. This will be more progressive since landless farmers, and farmers having no access to banks (eg- share croppers) can also be covered. It is in this context that the following scheme namely, KALIA, is formulated with various components.

Key features of the Scheme – KALIA – Krushak Assistance for Livelihood and Income Augmentation

1. Support to cultivators for cultivation: In order to ensure that the farmers don’t fall again into the debt trap, this component of the Scheme will be implemented from the

--- Page 49 ---

year, 2018-19 Rabi onwards to take care of the initial investment needs of every small & marginal farmer. Under this component, support will be provided for cultivation to the small & marginal farmers by way of a grant of Rs. 5000/- per farm family per season for purchase of inputs like seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, towards labour & other investments in the field operations based on the farmers’ choice for the crop season. Thus in a year, all the small and marginal farmers will receive Rs. 10,000/- for Kharif & Rabi, combined. This component is not linked to the extent of land owned and thus is more progressive in favour of all the small & marginal farmers. Out of the 32.46 lakh cultivators dependent on agriculture, 92% (i.e. 30.176 lakh) are small & marginal farmers. It is important to note that this assistance for five cropping seasons spanning 2018-19 to 2020-21 so as to ensure comprehensive coverage. About Rs. 3016 crores will be required annually for this component of the Scheme. 

2. Livelihood support for landless agricultural households: Livestock & fishery based activities are the key drivers of economic growth in rural areas particularly for landless households as the income from wage labour alone is insufficient. Agriculture allied sector assumes immense significance in promoting goat, sheep, poultry farming, mushroom cultivation, bee keeping and fishery activities as additional activities in rural area, which contribute substantially in enhancing their income and overall wellbeing. Hence, it is proposed to assist 10 lakh landless households under agriculture allied activities over 3 years from 2018-19 to 2020-21. In addition to others, this will particularly benefit the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribe population of our State. The activities are; i) Small goat rearing units, ii)Mini layer units, iii) Dual purpose Low Input Technology bird units, iv) Duckery units, v) Fishery kits for fishermen, vi) Mushroom cultivation and Bee keeping. Sheds as required will be constructed in convergence 4 with other schemes and poultry cage for mini layer units will be constructed. It is targeted to cover 7 lakh households with animal resource sector activities, 1 lakh households with fishery sector activities and 2 lakh households with 

3. Horticulture sector activities. The landless households will have the option of selecting any one of the livelihood units as per their choice. The unit cost for each of these activities is Rs. 12,500 for each household. The total cost of this component for 10 lakh households over the entire period of the disbursement of 3 years will be Rs.1250 crores. 

4. Financial Assistance to vulnerable agricultural households: While support for cultivation has been proposed for small & marginal farmers and livelihood support for land less agricultural labourers, some of the farmers may not be able to take up cultivation and some of the landless agriculture labourers may not be able to avail Livelihood options due to old age, disability, disease or any other reason. It is, therefore, proposed that for such vulnerable cultivators / land less agricultural labourers a lump

--- Page 50 ---

sum financial assistance of Rs.10,000/- per family be provided to take care of their sustenance. Deserving families will be identified and selected by Gram Panchayats. It is estimated to cover 10 lakh such beneficiaries in the next two years. However, no individual would receive more than any one of the benefits i.e. either cultivation support or livelihood support or financial assistance to vulnerable households. Thus, the annual requirement for this component will be about Rs.500 cores.
5.	Life insurance support to cultivators & landless agriculture labourers: The life of the farmer has the risk of death and disability. Insurance support will reduce these uncertainties and provide financial support for their families. The main objective is to provide financial relief and security to the family members & dependents of the deceased in case of those uncertainties. Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) offers pure Life Insurance cover of Rs.2,00,000/- at a very nominal annual premium of Rs. 330/- for all savings bank account holders aged between 18 and 50 years. Government of Odisha will bear the farmer’s share of annual premium of Rs.165/-. Similarly, LIC is also offering personal accident cover of Rs. 2,00,000/- at a very nominal annual premium of Rs. 12/- for all savings bank account holders aged between 18 and 50 years. Out of Rs. 12/- towards premium Rs. 6/- is the farmer’s share, which will be borne by the Government of Odisha. From age 51-70 years the entire amount of Rs. 12/- towards premium will be borne by the Government of Odisha. This component will cover both cultivators & landless agricultural labourers, who are primarily dependent on agriculture as the main activity, which comes to 57 lakh individuals. Those farmers already insured under similar schemes will be excluded. The total annual cost towards this component will be about Rs. 85 crores.
6.	Interest free Crop loan: It is proposed to reduce the interest rate on crop loans up to Rs. 50,000 from the present 1% to 0%, thus making them interest free, from the year, 2019-20. Since about Rs. 11,000 crores of crop loans in this category are given every year, the expected cost of interest subvention will be Rs. 110 crores annually.
7.	Modalities for implementation: The farm family constitutes of the farmer and his or her spouse along with their dependent children.
i.	The farmer must be a permanent resident/domicile of Odisha.
ii.	The farmer or his/ her spouse should neither be an income tax payee nor a Government/PSU sector employee.
iii.	The amount will be transferred online directly to the account of the head of the farm family, wherever possible. However, the first payment will be made, wherever possible, through cheques in camp mode for greater transparency.
iv.	The actual numbers indicated may vary based on the implementation.
v.	An MIS portal shall be developed for monitoring the scheme.

--- Page 51 ---

vi. The SLBC will furnish the technical details for transmitting the fund in a secured format.  
vii. The scheme will be implemented by the Department of Agriculture & Farmers' Empowerment, Department of Fisheries & Animal Resources Development and Cooperation Department under the supervision of concerned Collector-cum-District Magistrate at the field level. The detailed modalities for implementation will be worked out by the concerned Department.  
viii. A State Level Committee under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary, Odisha & District Level Committee under the chairmanship of Collector-cum-District Magistrate shall be formed to review & monitor the implementation of the scheme and to suggest changes that may be required.  
ix. An implementation committee will be set-up under the Chairmanship of Principal Secretary, Agriculture & Farmers' Empowerment comprising of the Principal Secretary / Secretary 6 of Departments of Cooperation, Fisheries & Animal Resources Development and Panchayati Raj & Drinking Water to ensure smooth implementation of the scheme. They will meet as often as required.

BALARAM (Bhoomihina Agriculturist Loan And Resources Augmentation Model)

Introduction

As per the Census 2011, about 83.3% people of Odisha are living in rural areas. The majority of the rural workforce of Odisha is engaged in Agriculture and allied activities and Agriculture sector still continues to be the major source of livelihoods for a major part of the population of the state. Also during the current situation of the COVID-19 pandemic, the state can leverage the potential of agricultural sector in reviving the economy. Usually, the lessee cultivators / sharecroppers who are landless or marginal cultivators do not have access to most of the assistance and facilities provided by Government. It is necessary to strengthen the farmers cultivating land as share croppers in the state and enable them to avail loan through formal credit institutions. In 'SAMRUDHI' the new Agriculture Policy-2020 of Govt. of Odisha, one of the important measures of action is the promotion of a new model to facilitate sharecroppers by providing institutional credit. SAMRUDHI has envisaged many steps for providing all required support to the landless farmers, sharecroppers and oral lessees. According to the estimation of the Agriculture Census 2015-16, there are 48.66 lakhs operational holdings in Odisha. Out of this about 9.05 lakhs

--- Page 52 ---

operational holdings are of "leased in" tenancy status (2.83 lakhs are of "wholly leased in" and 6.22 lakhs are of "partly leased in" tenancy status). In brief about 18.6% of operational holdings are being operated by sharecroppers out of which 93.2% are small and marginal farmers. Keeping in view the above, Government of Odisha in collaboration with NABARD has evolved an alternative mechanism for purveying credit particularly crop loan /Kisan credit card through formal credit institutions in Odisha to Lessee Cultivators/ sharecroppers. The mechanism envisages forming Joint Liability Groups (JLGs) as a strategic intervention and accessing bank credit thereby reducing the dependence of these groups of farmers on informal sources of credit. Accordingly, the scheme "BALARAM" (Bhoomiha Agriculturist Loan and Resources Augmentation Model) has been formulated. 

Aims and Objectives of the Scheme

i. To augment flow of credit to farmers cultivating land as tenant farmers, oral lessees or share croppers who do not have proper title of their operational land holding, through formation and financing of JLGs. 
ii. Formation of One lakh Joint Liability Groups of Lessee Cultivators / sharecroppers or oral lessees in the State covering 05 lakh such farmers over a period of 2 years which will serve their common interest regarding access to credit from formal financial sector. 
iii. To extend collateral free loans to target clients through JLG mechanism. 
iv. To execute the programme by close coordination of State Government, Banks and eligible farmers.

Project Holder

Department of Agriculture and Farmers' Empowerment, Government of Odisha will be the project holder and the scheme will be implemented under their overall supervision and guidance. Institute on Management of Agricultural Extension (IMAGE) has been declared as the Nodal Agency for implementation of "BALARAM" and the structural platform of Agricultural Technology Management Agency(ATMA) shall be leveraged for programme execution.

Eligible Activities All cropping activities (including Horticulture crops) are eligible under the scheme.

Major strategic steps of the Scheme Proper identification of the borrowers and implementation of scheme through a dedicated nodal agency are crucial for success

--- Page 53 ---

of the scheme. To address this issue, IMAGE, Bhubaneswar will act as Nodal Agency for implementation of the Scheme at State level. The implementation and monitoring of the Scheme will be taken up by Project Director, ATMA at District level and Block Agriculture Officer/AAO at Block level. The formation of JLGs of eligible landless farmers cultivating land as sharecroppers or oral lessees will be undertaken by Krushak Sathi (KS) of Department of Agriculture and Farmers“ Empowerment at Gram Panchayat/ village level. The step-wise process of implementation of the Scheme would be as under:

i. Assignment of targets for formation of JLGs for a particular financial year to Krushak Sathi (KS) on gram panchayat basis by PD, ATMA /Block Agriculture Officer.

ii. Krushak Sathi will identify such eligible farmers/oral lessee in allotted Gram Panchayat who are not defaulters to any formal financial institutions and prepare list of such beneficiaries and share it with the local bank branches/PACS who have been assigned the villages/Gram Panchayat as per service area scheme in a specified format.

iii. Bank Branches/PACS will check the list and eliminate existing loanees /defaulters from the list.

iv. After receiving revised list from Bank branches/ PACS, the Krushak Sathi will form JLGs in the villages/Gram Panchayats assigned to him as per 4 guidelines, provide necessary hand holding support to the beneficiaries and help the JLGs in filling various forms / preparing documents to be submitted to Bank / PACS for availing loan.

v. Based on the application of the beneficiaries/JLGs regarding area of cultivation by them, the Village Agriculture Worker/Horticulture Extension Worker/Agriculture Overseer of the concerned Gram village/Panchayat will verify the details and prepare “Certificate of Cultivation” which will be countersigned by BAO/AAO at block level. The Certificate of Cultivation will provide/contain details of land under cultivation along with information about crops grown in a format specified in the guideline.

vi. Krushak Sathi will help JLGs in preparation of loan application and submission of the same along with Certificate of Cultivation to concerned Bank branch/ PACS for credit linkage.

vii. The Bank branch will issue KCC/crop loan to JLGs based on Certificate of Cultivation and calculate the eligible loan amount as per scale of finance of the district.

viii. Krushak Sathi will prepare detail information regarding status and progress of formation and credit linkage of JLGs and appraise the VAW/HEW/AO about the progress of the scheme.

52

--- Page 54 ---

ix. To bring transparency and better monitoring of the scheme, a dedicated portal for the scheme will be created by Department of Agriculture and Farmers Empowerment, Govt. of Odisha so that the data uploaded by Krushak Sathi can be viewed and shared with other stakeholders including Banks. However, till such time the portal is functional, manual format will be used for formation and credit linkage of JLGs.
x. Krushak Sathi will also build the capacity of the beneficiaries for prompt repayment of loan availed.

Institutional Structures to support the Scheme

State Level –Institute on Management of Agricultural Extension (IMAGE), Bhubaneswar an autonomous society under the Government of Odisha will act as Nodal Agency for implementation of the Scheme at State level. The scheme will be monitored and reviewed by them as per guidelines issued by Department of Agriculture and Farmers“ Empowerment, Government of Odisha from time to time.

District Level – The implementation and monitoring of the scheme will be taken up by Project Director, Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) of each district of Odisha. ATMA will make an assessment of eligible beneficiaries and no of JLGs after the completion of activities mentioned in point (b),(c) and (d) of Para 8 of these guidelines by Krushak Sathis.

Block Level - The implementation and monitoring of the scheme will be taken up by Block Agriculture Officer of each Block of Odisha. He will assign target to each Krushak Sathi for formation, nurturing and credit linking of JLGs in each Gram Panchayat of the District.

Gram Panchayat Level – Each Gram Panchayat of Odisha will be entry point for implementation of the scheme. Krushak Sathi nominated by the concerned CDAO on behalf of Department of Agriculture and Farmers“ Empowerment, Government of Odisha in each Gram Panchayat will be grass root level functionary for identification of eligible farmers, formation, nurturing and credit linking of JLGs as per targets assigned to them, under the supervision of the concerned VAW/HEW/AO.

Capacity building

NABARD, Odisha R.O., Bhubaneswar will conduct a State level workshop for officials of Department of Agriculture and Farmers“ Empowerment, IMAGE and Banks involved in the scheme to familiarise all stakeholders with the details of the scheme so that state level units of different departments and banks can issue instructions to ground level implementing units to actively participate in the implementation of the scheme. 

53

--- Page 55 ---

Further, NABARD will also support in conducting such training programmes at district level to train District level officials, core team of ATMA, Banks or any other agency identified by the Department Agriculture & FE. The core team of ATMA at district level is expected to sensitise block level core team of ATMA, Banks and other stakeholders who in turn will train Krushak Sathi/Village Agriculture Worker (VAW)/ Horticulture Extension Worker (HEW)/Agriculture Overseer. The broad components of the training include concept of JLG, steps for formation of JLGs, formats to be used in formation of JLGs, incentive structure for formation and credit linkage of JLGs, repayment, roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders including Banks etc. Some formats are also included in annexure for ready reference.

Use of technology

Department of Agriculture and Farmers‘ Empowerment, Government of Odisha will develop a dedicated portal (either web-based and/or app-based) to capture the data of JLG formed by Krishak Sathi, generation of Certificate of Cultivation, monitoring of applications assigned to bank branches and sanction of loan and MIS for district/state level monitoring and review etc. Further, the database would be used for administration of interest subvention, input subsidy administration or any other benefits to the groups, if envisaged.

Certificate of cultivation A “Certificate of Cultivation “(CoC)” shall be issued to the individual member of the “Joint Liability Group” that has been formed for cultivation of seasonal crops and availing crop loan from the financial institutions for the said activities. The following process shall be followed for issue of “Certificate of cultivation”. The specimen copy of the Certificate of Cultivation is attached at Annexure- I.

In order to avail the “Certificate of Cultivation” the farmer has to submit an application in the prescribed format (Annexure-II) to the Krushak Sathi of the concerned Gram Panchayat. i. Upon receipt of application, the KrushakSathi will visit the crop field of the applicant and verify the details of the field. i.e./ she should complete this verification within 7 days of receipt of application. iii. After field verification, the KrushakSathi will record his/her observation in the same form (overleaf) and submit it to the Village Agricultural Worker/Agriculture overseer who will countersign the verification form and submit the same to the concerned Assistant Agriculture Officer (A.A.O) within 3 working days. iv. Thereafter the Assistant/Block Agriculture Officer (B.A.O) will issue the CoC to the eligible farmer within 3 working days. v. The VAW/A.O should make at least 10% verification of the field on random basis and if necessary the


--- Page 56 ---

RI/RS may check the particulars for accuracy. vi. The A.A.O should make at least 5% verification of the field on random basis vii. The A.A.O should maintain details of all the CoCs issued in a season. viii. The CoC will only be used for the purpose of availing crop loan from the financial institution under “BALARAM” scheme and no other purpose. In case of default by the sharecroppers (to whom CoC has been issued) there shall be no liability on the owner. ix. Presently the process of issue of CoC will be done manually and subsequently the entire process shall be digitized in the phased manner.

In order to avail the “Certificate of Cultivation” the farmer has to submit an application in the prescribed format (Annexure-II) to the KrushakSathi of the concerned Gram Panchayat. i. Upon receipt of application, the KrushakSathi will visit the crop field of the applicant and verify the details of the field. ii. He/ she should complete this verification within 7 days of receipt of application. iii. After field verification, the KrushakSathi will record his/her observation in the same form (overleaf) and submit it to the Village Agricultural Worker/Agriculture overseer who will countersign the verification form and submit the same to the concerned Assistant Agriculture Officer (A.A.O) within 3 working days. iv. Thereafter the Assistant/Block Agriculture Officer (B.A.O) will issue the CoC to the eligible farmer within 3 working days. v. The VAW/A.O should make at least 10% verification of the field on random basis and if necessary the RI/RS may check the particulars for accuracy. vi. The A.A.O should make at least 5% verification of the field on random basis vii. The A.A.O should maintain details of all the CoCs issued in a season. viii. The CoC will only be used for the purpose of availing crop loan from the financial institution under “BALARAM” scheme and no other purpose. In case of default by the sharecroppers (to whom CoC has been issued) there shall be no liability on the owner. ix. Presently the process of issue of CoC will be done manually and subsequently the entire process shall be digitized in the phased manner.

CAPITAL INVESTMENT AND FARM MECHANISATION

1. DEVELOPMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE FOR POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT:

Objective: To promote post-harvest management through assisting establishment of identified infrastructure and popularising improved post-harvest technology.

Intervention: Assistance is provided for establishment of infrastructure for post-harvest operations.

55

--- Page 57 ---

2. SUBSIDY UNDER AGRICULTURE POLICY (Capital Investment Subsidy)
Objectives: To promote establishment of commercial agri-enterprises in the state. 

Intervention: Capital Investment Subsidy extended upto 40% (excluding cost of land) limited to Rs.50.00 lakhs (50% limited to Rs.50.00 lakh for SC/ ST/ Women/ Graduates of Agriculture and allied disciplines). The applicants can apply on line under Mukhyamantri Krushi Udyog Yojana (MKUY) and applications will be processed for approval in a hassle free and transparent manner.

3. POPULARISAITON OF AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, EQUIPMENTS AND DIESEL PUMPSETS:
Objective: To popularise use of farm machineries and equipment through providing subsidy assistance to farmers so as to facilitate timely and scientific agricultural operations and reduce cost of cultivation and drudgery of labour associated with these agricultural operations.

Intervention: Subsidy is being extended for popularising different farm equipments.

Besides, Innovative farmers who have developed/ modified some of the farm equipment’s or operations depending on the prevailing situation are rewarded at district and state level under Mukhya Mantri Abhinaba Krushi Jantrapati Samman Yojana.

Implements/Machines & Description

Schemes in which to be popularised

"For SC, ST, SF/MF/Women farmers''

For other beneficiary

Pattern of Assist.

Max. subsidy 

Pattern of Assist.

Max. subsidy 

Tractor 2WD (above 20-40 PTO HP)

State Plan (SP)

50%

Rs.90,000/-

40%

Rs.90,000/-

Power Tiller (8 BHP & above).

SMAM/ SP

50%

Rs.85,000/-

40%

Rs.70,000/-

Self-propelled –

Paddy Reaper-

RKVY/SMAM

50%

Rs.75,000/-

40%

Rs.60,000/-

Paddy Reaper-cum-binder (3 wheel)

SMAM/ SP

50%

Rs.1,75,000/

40%

Rs.1,40,000/

--- Page 58 ---

Implements/Machines & Description

Schemes in which to be popularised

"For SC, ST, SF/MF/Women farmers"

For other beneficiary

Pattern of Assist.

Max. subsidy

Pattern of Assist.

Max. subsidy

Walk behind type Transplanter (4 Rows)

RKVY/ BGREI

50%

Rs.1,50,000/

40%

Rs.1,20,000/

Riding type Transplanter (> 4 - 8 Rows)

RKVY/ BGREI

50%

Rs.5,00,000/

40%

s.4,00,000/-

Special power driven equipment like –

Axial flow threshers (tractor & power tiller operated) < 20 BHP

SMAM/ RKVY

50%

Rs.30,000/-

40%

Rs.25,000/-

Axial flow threshers (tractor) ( Threshers / Multi crop Threshers upto 4 tonne/hr. Capacity)

SMAM/ RKVY

50%

Rs.1,00,000/-

40%

Rs. 80,000/-

Rotavator (5 feet)

RKVY/ BGREI

50%

Rs.42,000/-

40%

Rs.34,000/-

Rotavator (6 feet)

RKVY/ BGREI

50%

Rs.44,800/-

40%

Rs.35,800/-

Spl-pow-Power weeder (Below 2 Bhp)

BGREI/ SP

50%

Rs.25,000/-

40%

Rs.20,000/-

Spl-pow-Power weeder (above 2 Bhp)

BGREI/ SP

50%

Rs.35,000/-

40%

Rs.30,000/-

Spl-pow-Power weeder (above 5 Bhp)

BGREI/ SP

50%

Rs.63,000/-

40%

Rs.50,000/-

Spl- pow-Brush Cutter

BGREI/ SP

50%

Rs.30,000/-

40%

Rs.25,000/-

PHM - Rubber roll Sheller

State Plan

60%

Rs.1,50,000/

50%

Rs.1,25,000/

PHM - Mini Rice Mill

State Plan

60%

Rs.25,000/-

50%

Rs.20,800/-

PHM – Sheller-cum-Polisher (Tractor Operated)

State Plan

60%

Rs.1,00,000/

50%

Rs.80,000/-

PHM - Maize sheller (Tractor Operated)

State Plan

60%

Rs.1,00,000/

50%

Rs.80,000/-

PHM - Dal Mill < 2hp

State Plan

60%

Rs.75,000/

50%

Rs.62,500/-

PHM - Mini Dal Mill

SMAM/ SP

60%

Rs.1,50,000/

50%

Rs.1,25,000/

PHM - Oil Mill

SMAM/ State Plan/ NFSM

60%

Rs.1,80,000/

50%

Rs.1,50,000/

Power driven

57

--- Page 59 ---

Implements/Machines & Description

Schemes in which to be popularised

"For SC, ST, SF/MF/Women farmers"
Pattern of Assist.
Max. subsidy

For other beneficiary
Pattern of Assist.
Max. subsidy

equipment (all type of Tractor / power tiller drawn implements) like –

Seed drill, Zero –till multi crop,  Seed cum fertilizer drill (Tractor ( >20-35 BHP)driven (7 tines))
RKVY/ SMAM/ NFSM
50%
Rs.18,000/-
40%
Rs.16,000/-

Seed drill/zero till seed drill (Tractor (> 35 BHP) driven (9tines and above))
RKVY/ SMAM/ NFSM
50%
Rs.20,000/-
40%
Rs.16,000/-

Seed cum fertilizer drill/Zero till Seed cum fertilizer drill (Tractor ( > 35 BHP) driven  9 tines)
RKVY/ SMAM/ NFSM
50%
Rs.21,300/-
40%
Rs.17,000/-

Seed cum fertilizer drill/Zero till Seed cum fertilizer drill (Tractor ( > 35 BHP) driven  11 tines)
RKVY/ SMAM/ NFSM
50%
Rs.24,100/-
40%
Rs.19,300/-

Diesel/ Electric/ petrol/ kerosene pumpsets 1.5 hp to  10 BHP/ 7.5 KW from 1 KW
RKVY/ State Plan
50%
Rs.1800/Hp
40%
Rs.1500/Hp

Laser Guided Leveller
SMAM/ SP
50%
Rs.2,00,000/-
40%
Rs.1,60,000/

Sub Soiler (above 35 hp tractor)
SMAM
50%
Rs. 55,000/-
40%
Rs. 45,000/-

Shreder  (above 35 hp tractor) trailed type
SMAM
50%
Rs.1,26,000/
40%
Rs.1,01,000/

Balers
Balers (Round) (14-16 kg/bale)
SMAM
50%
Rs.2,00,000/
40%
Rs.1,60,000/

Balers (Round) (above 16-25 kg/bale)
SMAM
50%
Rs.5,50,000/
40%
Rs.4,40,000/

Balers (Rectangular) (18-20 kg/bale)
SMAM
50%
Rs. 6,00,000
40%
Rs.4,80,000/
58

--- Page 60 ---

Implements/Machines & Description

Schemes in which to be popularised

"For SC, ST, SF/MF/Women farmers"

For other beneficiary

Pattern of Assist.

Max. subsidy

Pattern of Assist.

Max. subsidy

Combine

State Plan

25%

Rs. 3,00,000

25%

Rs.3,00,000

Pattern of Assistance and subsidy admissible under Farm Mechanization

CROP PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT

Interventions: Integrated Farming System Models

(Amount in Rs.)

Components

Model-1

Model-2

Model-3

Irrigated/Rainfed Large IFS Model (2.0 -2.5 acre)

Irrigated/ Rainfed Medium IFS Model (1.0 -2.0 acre)

Irrigated/Rainfed Small IFS Model (0.5 to 1.0 Acre) without farm pond

Irrigated/Rainfed Small IFS Model (0.5 to 1.0 Acre) with Farm Pond

Estimd. Cost

Fin. Assist.

Estimd. Cost

Fin. Assist.

Estimd. Cost

Fin. Assist.

Estimd. Cost

Fin. Assist.

All Components

321,000

150,000

257,000

125,000

152,000

76,000

180,000

90,000

All Components (except Goatery)

296,000

145,000

244,500

122,000

139,000

9,500

167,000

83,500

All Components (except milch cow unit) (however 1 milch cow is allowed in small IFS unit)

261,000

127,000

197,000

98,000

122,000

60,500

150,000

74,500

4. SPECIAL PROGRAMME FOR PROMOTION OF INTEGRATED FARMING (SPPIF) IN TRIBAL AREAS:

59

--- Page 61 ---

Objective: To promote Integrated Farming System approach through providing subsidy assistance for establishment of Integrated Farms in Tribal areas both in community model and individual model.

Intervention: The programme is being implemented in Malkangiri, Rayagada, Koraput, Gajapati and Nuapada districts and would be extended to other tribal areas based on the results.

5. TECHNOLOGY MISSION ON SUGARCANE DEVELOPMENT:

Objective: To popularise the latest technologies in sugarcane cultivation to enhance the production and productivity.

Intervention: The interventions include

➢ Sustainable Sugarcane Initiative
➢ Raton Management Demonstration
➢ Creation of Seed-cane hubs in Sugarcane growing areas
➢ Farmer-Scientist-Extension Interface
➢ Production Incentive to cane growers producing 100 MT in Sugar Factory Zone

6. TECHNOLOGY MISSION ON COTTON:

Objective: To encourage production of quality cotton fibre by enabling farmers through capacity building for adoption of appropriate post-harvest technology and build up a strategy for smooth marketing and MSP operation.

Intervention: Demonstration on Integrated Crop Management, Farmers training on grading & marketing of cotton, Farmers Training on Integrated crop production, Capacity Building on production & marketing of cotton for Agriculture Extension Personnel, Awareness campaign on PHM & Cotton Procurement, Farm Implements/ PP Equipment, Sprinkler Irrigation System, Distribution of PP Chemicals & Bio Agents and cotton procurement.

7. SUPPORT TO CROP INSURANCE IN THE STATE:

Objective: The farmers of our state suffer greatly due to vagaries of monsoon on a regular basis and our objective would be to enrol maximum number of farmers under crop insurance.

--- Page 62 ---

Intervention: The farmers would be encouraged to enrol under crop insurance by creating awareness and capacity building. It is envisaged to outreach about 25 lakh farmers covering 15 lakh ha of crops under the scheme.

8. MANAGEMENT OF SOIL HEALTH:

Objective: Owing to the instances of soil health deterioration due to intensive agriculture practiced in these modern days management of soil health has grown as a priority before us. Thus managing problems of soil acidity, nutrient deficiency, deterioration of soil physic-chemical properties through various interventions and up-keeping soil health for sustainable crop production emerges as one of the important objectives and being looked into under the scheme.

Intervention: It is designed to take up different interventions like Management of Acid Soils, Operationalization of Soil and Quality Control Labs, promotion of Organic Farming, demonstration of soil health management skills etc are under this. This would also include other interventions directed towards management of soil health for sustainable crop production.

9. PROMOTION OF NEED BASED PLANT PROTECTION:

Objective: To promote need based plant protection through creating awareness based on pest surveillance and as per prevailing agro-climatic situation.

Intervention: Subsidy extended on purchase of plant protection chemicals based on need for disease and pest control. Besides, Student scouts are being appointed for facilitating farmers in pest management and other agricultural operations.

10. DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURE IN COLLABORATION WITH INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS:

Objective: Collaborate with international Institutions for identification of appropriate technology and effective technology transfer and enhance production of cropping systems.

11. SPECIAL PROGRAMME FOR MILLETS IN TRIBAL AREAS OF ODISHA

Objectives: To increase productivity of millets and promote millet based enterprises for enhancing food & nutritional security and economical upliftment of tribal households.

--- Page 63 ---

Intervention: Special Program for millets (Odisha Millet Mission) implemented in identified 65 blocks of 11 tribal districts (under State Plan) and 16 blocks of 4 districts (under DMF) for enhancing the nutritional security of the tribal households will continue during 2021-22.

Interventions in Each block
✓ Restoring and improving Household level consumption
✓ Support to Enterprises on processing and value addition of millets
✓ Improving productivity
✓ Appropriate farm mechanisation through custom hiring centres
✓ Block level community resource persons
✓ Promotion of millets in urban and small towns
✓ Farmers' Producers Organisations (as per SFAC/ NABARD norms - forming FPO Costs)/Support to FPOs Costs
✓ Support to Community Based Organisations
✓ "Promotion and Strengthening of Community Based Organisations"

Millets have been included in the state nutrition programmes and public distribution system. This is also expected to establish market linkages to urban/ rural markets. It is envisaged to extend procurement support for Ragi during this year.

12. INTENSIVE AGRICULTURE PROGRAMME

Objective: The scheme will be implemented to incentivise cultivation of non-paddy crops.

Intervention: During 2021-22, the interventions will cover promoting cultivation of different Pulses, Oilseeds, Jute and Cotton crop. Assistance will be provided to farmers for procuring critical agri-inputs and adoption of modern crop husbandry.

FARMER’S WELFARE

Objective: The objective of the scheme would be more inclusive and all round development in agriculture sector and working towards welfare of the Farmers of the state.

Intervention: Assistance to farmers will continue to be implemented under KALIA. All the identified Small and Marginal Farmers and Share Croppers (Actual Cultivators) will be provided Support for Cultivation and Land Less Agricultural Households with livelihood assistance. Besides Scholarship Would be provided to children of KALIA beneficiaries for pursuing higher professional Studies in Govt. institutions of repute.

--- Page 64 ---

INNOVATIVE PROJECTS

Objectives: To identify and formulate innovative projects for development of the agriculture sector.

Interventions: As per the project entitlements.

HARNESSING SURFACE AND GROUND WATER

1. JALANIDHI (Negotiable Loan) RIDF:

Objective: To provide assistance under RIDF for establishment of Private Lift Irrigation Points (shallow tube wells, deep bore wells, dug wells and river lift projects etc.) under the aegis of State Agriculture Policy. The PLIPs will be implemented in two formats viz. Jalanidhi–I for individuals and Jalanidhi-II in clusters.

Intervention:

Jalanidhi-I

Shallow Tube Well - 50% limited to Rs.20,000/- in case of cluster of 10 nos or more STWs the cost of electrification will be borne by the Govt. subject to a ceiling of Rs.4.00 lakh/ cluster

Bore Well - 75% limited to Rs.50,000/- (excluding electrification cost). In addition 75% of Genset/ electrification cost limited to Rs.50,000/- for energisation)

Dug Wells - 75% of project cost limited to Rs.75, 000/-

Surface/ River lifts -75% limited to Rs.60, 000/- (community based/ Registered bodies to get 90% subsidy provided the minimum ayacut is 40 hect.)

Jalanidhi-II

Cluster Shallow Tube Well- Beneficiary Contribution is Rs.20, 000/- per project.

(For BPL of ST & SC category, the beneficiary contribution is Rs.10, 000/- per project. To be implemented in a cluster of at least 5 projects.)

Cluster Micro River Lifts - Beneficiary contribution is Rs.20, 000/- per project.

(For BPL of ST& SC category, the beneficiary contribution is Rs.10, 000/- per project, to be implemented in a cluster of atleast 3 projects)

Solar Photo Voltaic Pumps - 60% limited to Rs.36000.00 per 0.5 HP SPV Pumpset.

--- Page 65 ---

(Under Soura Jalanidhi programme)

INFORMATION, EDUCATION AND COMMUNICATION 

Objective: The objective of the scheme would be creating awareness among all the stake holders regarding the developmental agenda of the Government and activities take thereof in Agriculture Sector utilizing various methods of mass communication.

Interventions: will include Organisation of Krushi Odisha (State Level Agriculture Fair), publication of IEC materials and Organisation of Public awareness Campaigns through different mass media.

TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING OF AGRICULTURE:

1. INTENSIVE EXTENSION CAMPAIGN ON AGRICULTURE:

Objective: To create awareness among farmers and other stake holders on agriculture development programme of the state through various mass communication mediums.

Intervention: Extensive campaigns would be conducted for creating public awareness on programmes being implemented and modern crop husbandry. Besides, Felicitating Block level farmers, Agriculture Information Centre at District level. Training of Para Extension Workers Regional and State level Krishi Mahstavs will be organised to portray and felicitate achievements in the farm sector and farmers’.

2. STRENGTHENING/ INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT FOR TRAINING/ RESEARCH CENTRES, LABORATORIES AND IMPLEMENT FACTORY ETC:

Objective: To strengthen and develop infrastructure for quality control of agri-inputs, in-house production of farm implements and training centres for capacity building of farmers and extension functionaries.

Interventions: Fund utilised for strengthening, Soil Testing Labs, FQCLs, Seed Testing Labs, Training Institutes, Implement Factory (OFMRDC) etc.

64

--- Page 66 ---

65

--- Page 67 ---

HORTICULTURE SCHEME

66

--- Page 68 ---

CENTRALLY SPONSORED SCHEMES  
Horticulture  
MISSION FOR INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT OF HORTICULTURE  
OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES  
OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES  
Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture during XII Plan  

INTRODUCTION  
Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) is a Centrally Sponsored Scheme for the holistic growth of the horticulture sector covering fruits, vegetables, root & tuber crops, mushrooms, spices, flowers, aromatic plants, coconut, cashew, cocoa and bamboo. While Government of India (GOI) contributes 85% of total outlay for developmental programmes in all the states except the states in North East and Himalayas, 15% share is contributed by State Governments. In the case of North Eastern States and Himalayan States, GOI contribution is 100%. Similarly, for development of bamboo and programmes of National Horticulture Board (NHB), Coconut Development Board (CDB), Central Institute for Horticulture (CIH), Nagaland and the National Level Agencies (NLA), GOI contribution will be 100%. Guidelines regarding implementation of the scheme are described hereunder.  
MIDH will have the following sub-schemes and area of operation:  

Sl. No. Sub Scheme  
1. NHM  
2. HMNEH  
3. NBM  
4. NHB  
5. CDB  
6. CIH  

Target group / area of operation
All states & UTs except states in NE and Himalayan Region.  
All states in NE and Himalayan Region.  
All states & UTs  
All states & UTs focusing on commercial horticulture  
All States and UTs where coconut is grown.  
NE states, focusing on HRD and capacity building.  

MIDH will work closely with National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) towards development of Micro-Irrigation for all horticulture crops and protected cultivation on farmers’ field.  
MIDH will also provide technical advice and administrative support to State Governments/ State Horticulture Missions (SHMs) for the Saffron Mission and other horticulture related activities like Vegetable Initiative for Urban Clusters (VIUC), funded by Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY)/NMSA.  

2. MISSION OBJECTIVES  
Main objectives of the Mission are:  
a) Promote holistic growth of horticulture sector, including bamboo and coconut through area based regionally differentiated strategies, which includes research, technology promotion,
67

--- Page 69 ---

extension, post-harvest management, processing and marketing, in consonance with comparative advantage of each State/region and its diverse agro-climatic features;
b) Encourage aggregation of farmers into farmer groups like FIGs/FPOs and FPCs to bring economy of scale and scope. 
c) Enhance horticulture production, augment farmers, income and strengthen nutritional security;
d) Improve productivity by way of quality germplasm, planting material and water use efficiency through Micro Irrigation.
e) Support skill development and create employment generation opportunities for rural youth in horticulture and post-harvest management, especially in the cold chain sector.

3. STRATEGY
To achieve above objectives, the mission will adopt the following strategies:
a) Adopt an end-to-end holistic approach covering pre-production, production, post-harvest management, processing and marketing to assure appropriate returns to growers/producers;
b) Promote R&D technologies for cultivation, production, post-harvest management and processing with special focus on cold chain infrastructure for extending the shelf life of perishables;
c) Improve productivity by way of quality through: 
i. Diversification, from traditional crops to plantations, orchards, vineyards, flowers, vegetable gardens and bamboo plantations.
ii. Extension of appropriate technology to farmers for high-tech horticulture including protected cultivation and precision farming.
iii. Increase of acreage of orchards and plantation crops including bamboo and coconut, particularly in states where total area under horticulture is less than 50% of agricultural area.
d) Improve post-harvest management, processing for value addition and marketing infrastructure.
e) Adopt a coordinated approach and promote partnership, convergence and synergy among R&D, processing and marketing agencies in public as well as private sectors, at the national, regional, state and sub-state levels;
f) Promote FPOs and their tie up with Market Aggregators (MAs) and Financial Institutions (FIs) to support and adequate returns to farmers.
g) Support capacity-building and Human Resource Development at all levels, including, change in syllabus and curriculum of graduation courses at Colleges, Universities, ITIs, Polytechnics, as appropriate.

4. MISSION STRUCTURE 

(I) NATIONAL LEVEL

68

--- Page 70 ---

a) General Council

The Mission will have a General Council (GC) at National level under Chairmanship of Union Agriculture Minister. The composition of GC will be as follows:

Minister of Agriculture Chairman 
Ministers of Commerce, Health, Finance, Food Processing Industries, Panchayati Raj, Science & Technology, Rural Development, Environment & Forest, Textiles, Development of North Eastern Region (DONER), Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises. Members 
Member, (Agriculture) Planning Commission Member 
Secretaries - Ministry/Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Commerce, AYUSH, Finance, Food Processing Industries, Panchayati Raj, Rural Development, Environment & Forest, Textiles, DONER, Bio-Technology, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Members 
Chairperson, NABARD Member 
Director General, ICAR Member 
Additional Secretary (I/C of Horticulture, DAC) Member 
Managing Director, NHB Member 
Chairman, CDB Member 
Horticulture Commissioner Member 
Deputy Director General (I/C Bamboo) Member 
Adviser (Horticulture) Member 
Joint Secretary( I/C NMSA) Member 
Growers’ representatives & Experts from Confederation of Indian Horticulture (CIH), Federation of Members 
Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI), etc., (14 Members) 
Joint Secretary, DAC & Mission Director Member 
Secretary

GC will be the formulation body giving overall direction and guidance to Mission, monitor and review its progress and performance. Without affecting the approved programs, cost norms and pattern of assistance as approved by CCEA, GC will be empowered to lay down and amend operational guidelines. GC will meet at least twice a year. Tenure of non-official members of GC will be for three years from the date of nomination.

b) Executive Committee:

Executive Committee (EC), headed by Secretary, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation (DAC), will oversee activities of the Mission and approve Action Plans of SHMs and NLAs. The EC will comprise of the following:

69

--- Page 71 ---

Secretary (A&C)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Chairperson
Secretaries - Ministry/Department of Commerce, AYUSH, Food Processing Industries, Panchayati Raj, Rural Development, M/o DONER, Bio-Technology, Environment & Forests; Principal Adviser (Agriculture), Planning Commission                                                                                Members
Institutions – Director General, ICAR; Director General ICFRE, Director General, CSIR; Chairperson, NABARD; Additional Secretary (In charge of Horticulture, DAC); Additional Secretary & FA, DAC; Joint Secretary(Plant Protection), Joint Secretary(I/C NMSA), Horticulture Commissioner; Adviser (Horticulture); Deputy Director General (I/C Bamboo). Chairman, APEDA; Managing Director, NHB; Managing Director, NCDC; Managing Director, Small Farmer’s Agribusiness Consortium, Chief Executive Officer, National Medicinal Plants Board; Chairman, CDB; Agriculture Marketing Advisor, DAC; Joint Secretary, National Committee onPlasticulutre Applications in Agriculture & Horticulture(NCPAAH) ; CEO (NCCD).

Three Experts (Production, Post Harvest Management and Marketing)                                                                                                                         Members
Invite Secrataris, DAC & Mission Directors                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Member Secretary

EC is empowered to reallocate resources across States and components and approve projects on the basis of approved subsidy norms. EC is also empowered to approve special interventions for tackling emergent/ unforeseen requirements. EC can also constitute Empowered Monitoring Committee (EMC)/Sub-Committee (SC) and delegate powers to EMC/ SC/Mission Director, as well as to State Governments / State HorticultureMissions / State Bamboo Development Agencies (SBDA) for approving projects in accordance with approved cost norms and pattern of assistance. Tenure of the experts will be for three years from the date ofnomination. 
Horticulture Division in DAC will provide the necessary support to GC/EC/EMC and will administer NHM, HMNEH, NBM and CIH Scheme. Managing Director (NHB) will oversee the programmes of NHB while Chairman, CDB will oversee the CDB programmes. The existing structure of the Boards and Missions will be maintained to provide general direction for these programmes. EC/EMC will ensure smooth functional linkages among different agencies and meet as frequently, as required.

(II) STATE LEVEL

State Level Executive Committee

For NHM, HMNEH and NBM, State Level Executive Committee(s) (SLEC) under Chairmanship of Agricultural Production Commissioner or Principal Secretary Horticulture/Agriculture/Environment & Forests, (in the absence of APC) having representatives from other concerned Departments of State Government including Forests, the State Agricultural Universities (SAU), Institutes under Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Growers’ Associations/FPOs, etc will oversee the implementation of programmes of the respective States. Central Government will nominate its representative to the SLEC. State Mission Director NHM, HMNEH and NBM will be Member Secretary of the concerned SLEC. At operational level, State Governments will have freedom to establish State Horticulture Mission (SHM) and/ or SBDA as a

--- Page 72 ---

suitable autonomous agency, to be registered under Societies Registration Act for implementing Mission programmes at State and District levels. Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) existing in the State will be involved in the implementation of the programme.
State and sub-state level structures will be established keeping in view the specific requirement of the states. Formation of Farmer Groups/ Cooperatives of farmers and their tie-up with Financial Institutions and Market Aggregators would be encouraged.

State level agency will have the following functions:
a) Prepare Strategic/Perspective and annual State Level Action Plan in consonance with Mission’s goals and objectives and in close co-ordination with Technical Support Group, SAUs and ICAR institutes and oversee its implementation;
b) Clear project based proposals requiring approval of EC/EMC and approve projects within power vested.
c) Organize base-line survey and feasibility studies for distinct areas/clusters (District, sub- District, or a group of Districts) to determine status of horticultural/ bamboo production, potential and demand, and tailor assistance accordingly. Similar studies would also be undertaken for other components of the programme;
d) Receive funds from National Mission Authority, State Government and other sources for carrying on Mission’s activities, maintain proper accounts thereof and submit utilization certificate to concerned agencies;
e) Review the progress of formation of FPOs/FPCs to achieve economies of scale and scope and mobilize credit requirement of farmers through FIs;
f) Release funds to implementing organizations and oversee, monitor & review implementation of the programmes;
g) Assist and oversee implementation of schematic activities in the states through farmers, societies, grower associations, self-help groups, state institutions and other similar entities;
h) Organize workshops, seminars and training programmes for all interest groups/associations at state level, with the help of SAUs, ICAR Institutes, KVKs and other institutions having technical expertise;
i) Furnish monthly progress reports to DAC and also upload the same by 5th of each month, on the Mission’s web sites (www.nhm.nic.in), (www.tmnehs.gov.in), (www.nbm.nic.in ). Uploading of progress reports would be done both at the district and state level, and
j) Operationalize Information Communication Technology (ICT) enabled Management Information System (MIS) up to grass root level through Hornet. Each State will develop and host its own web site.

(III) PANCHAYATI RAJ INSTITUTIONS
District Planning Committee and Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) will be involved in implementing

--- Page 73 ---

the programme commensurate with their expertise and available infrastructure. They will have a role in implementation of MIDH with regard to:-

a) Identification of crops/species and beneficiaries in consultation with District Panchyats.

b) Training, Extension and Awareness creation through Panchayats and Gram Sabhas (GS).

c) Organization of PRI and GS meetings and giving feed back to the concerned officials with regard to implementation of MIDH.

Activity mapping with regard to devolution of Funds, Functions and Functionaries is given at 
Annexure I.

(IV) TECHNICAL SUPPORT GROUP (TSG)

The Mission will have a strong technical component and domain experts will be salient to the management of the Mission. As per extant practice, NHM and NBM will be supported by NHB and HMNEH and VIUC by SFAC. For post-harvest management and cold chain projects across NHM and HMNEH, technical support will be provided by NCCD. Service providers could also be engaged for providing technical services in accordance with Terms of Reference laid for the purpose and approved by EC. Horticulture Commissioner/ DDG (I/C), DAC will advise the TSGs on all issues relating to planting material, area expansion, rejuvenation, canopy management, INM/PM and organic farming. TSG would comprise personnel at different levels, who will provide technical services and their honorarium will be commensurate with their qualifications and experience. Fresh graduates having knowledge in horticulture and agro-forestry, computer professionals, MBA graduates and young professionals could also be a part of TSG.

TSG will have the following role and functions:

a) Visit States regularly and provide guidance in organizational and technical matters.

b) Compile material for conduct of regional workshops in respect of different horticulture/bamboo crops and different aspects viz. production, post-harvest management, processing, marketing etc. They will also prepare Annual Calendar for capacity building, promotional events, workshops/ seminars on different subjects in different regions of the country in consultation with (SHMs)/SBDAs.

c) Conduct studies on different aspects of horticulture/bamboo in all regions.

d) Document and disseminate case studies of success stories.

e) Assist States in capacity building programmes.

f) Provide monthly feed-back reports.

5. PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL AND IMPLEMENTATION

72

--- Page 74 ---

STRATEGY AND ROADMAP

States will prepare the existing perspective/strategic plan and road map for overall development of horticulture crops including Bamboo in respective state, duly projecting the targets to be achieved during the XII Plan period. This will form the basis for preparing Annual Action Plan (AAP). The Strategy & Road Map formulated by States should invariably contain information on geography & climate, potential of horticulture/bamboo development, availability of land, SWOC analysis, strategy for development and plan of action proposed to be taken to achieve goals in each district of the State. The document should focus on crops having comparative advantage and natural potential for development in the State, adoption of cluster approach for production and linking with available infrastructure, or to be created, for post-harvest management, processing, marketing and export. While selecting the cluster, preference should be given to those areas where natural resource base and water resources have been developed under watershed development programmes, Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY), Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), etc. Priority should be given for development of such crops, which are required to meet current and future demands.

ANNUAL ACTION PLAN

In this context, AAP needs to be supported with data/write up on outcome of past interventions covering the details of area expansion (variety/species introduced, increase in productivity achieved and number of clusters created), water resource development as per felt need of the State (amount of irrigation potential created, whether linked with micro irrigation, maintenance etc), INM/IPM (including requisite infrastructurecreated and how these are being utilized for benefit of farmers) and organic farming. Area expansion should be determined based on availability of planting material and a seed/planting material sub-plan shall be prepared separately as part of AAP.

Ministry of Agriculture will communicate the tentative outlay for the year to each State / NLA, which in turn will indicate sector-wise/district-wise allocation. Agencies at District level will prepare AAP keeping in view their priority and potential and submit the plan to State Horticulture/Bamboo Mission within the allocated sum. The States may engage TSG/Consultancy services for preparation of Perspective/Strategic/Annual Action Plans. State Horticulture/ Bamboo Mission in turn will prepare a consolidated proposal for State as a whole, get it vetted by the respective State Level Executive Committee (SLEC) and furnish the same, including copy in electronic format, to Ministry of Agriculture (MoA) for consideration by National Level Executive Committee (EC). All issues relating to horticultural/Bamboo development, covering production, post harvest management and marketing will be covered by SHMs/SBDAs. Formats for submission of Annual Action Plan to DAC are specified in Annexure IV (a) & (b). While finalizing the AAPs, due attention will be paid for earmarking specific targets for Scheduled Caste, 

--- Page 75 ---

Scheduled Tribe and women beneficiaries. As an inbuilt provision under MIDH scheme, higher rates of subsidy have been envisaged for taking up activities like creation of infrastructure for post-harvest management and marketing of horticulture produce along with area expansion by beneficiaries in the North Eastern States, Himalayan States, Tribal Sub Plan areas, Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep Islands.

6. FUND FLOW MECHANISM
Flow of funds and the utilization by the Implementing Agencies / SHMs / SBDA/ NLAs / PRIs etc from Government of India and utilization of funds shall be governed by extant financial norms. Funds will be released to the State Governments. State Government will release funds to the SHMs / State Level Implementing Agencies, who in turn would make funds available to DMC/ District Implementing Agency. As far as possible, efforts to make on-line payment to all Implementing Agencies would be ensured, which in turn will make arrangements for making payment to beneficiaries through electronic transfer, preferably to their respective bank accounts. Flow chart for release of funds under MIDH is given below

State Govt., NHM States +15% to SHM States

HMNEH Districts Beneficiaries

DMC/Districts Beneficiaries

NLA Beneficiaries

NHB Beneficiaries

CDB Beneficiaries

CIH Beneficiaries

74

--- Page 76 ---

Implementing agencies would be required to undertake activities within the funds released by the GOI and corresponding state share in respect of NHM. No claims of pending liabilities relating to expenditure over and above released funds will be entertained by DAC.

7. MISSION INTERVENTIONS

The Mission will be demand and need based in each segment. Technology will play an important role in different interventions. Technologies such as Information Communication Technology (ICT), Remote Sensing and Geographic Information System will be widely used for planning and monitoring purposes including identification of sites for creating infrastructure facilities for post-harvest management, markets and production forecasts.

The interventions envisaged for achieving desired goals would be varied and regionally differentiated with focus on potential crops to be developed in clusters by deploying modern and hi-tech interventions, duly ensuring backward and forward linkages. Revised cost norms and pattern of assistance, as given in

Annexure-V to VIII, will be adopted. Detailed guidelines in respect of NHB, CDB and CIH schemes, including modalities of approval of projects will be issued separately for effective implementation of these schemes

PRODUCTION AND PRODUCTIVITY IMPROVEMENT

The Mission will focus primarily on increasing both production and productivity through adoption of improved and appropriate technologies for ensuring quality, including genetic upgradation of all horticultural crops and addressing challenges of climate change. Special emphasis will also be given for adoption of area based cluster approach towards developing regionally differentiated crops, which are agro-climatically most suitable for the State/region. Cluster approach will also help in aggregation of farmers into FPOs/FPCs. Availability of good quality planting material will receive focused attention. Efforts will also be made to establish and upgrade nurseries and TC Units. This will be supplemented through plantation development programmes through addition of new areas under improved varieties to meet market demand. Planting material of seed origin for fruit crops which can be vegetatively propagated will not qualify for subsidy assistance.

PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION OF PLANTING MATERIAL

Nurseries

Production and distribution of good quality seeds and planting material will receive top priority. States will have a network of nurseries for producing planting material, which were established through


--- Page 77 ---

Central or State assistance. To meet the requirement of planting material (for bringing additional area under improved varieties of horticultural crops and for rejuvenation programme for old/senile plantations), assistance will be provided for setting up new hi-tech nurseries and small nurseries under the Public as well as Private sector. Hi-tech nurseries will have an area between 1 to 4 ha with a capacity to produce 50,000 plants per ha of mandated perennial fruit crops / tree spices / aromatic trees / plantation crops per year. The plants produced will be duly certified for their quality. In case of bamboo, the size of the Hi-Tech nursery will be restricted to 2 ha. The support includes:  
(i)  Proper fencing.  
(ii) Scion / Mother block of improved varieties.  
(iii) Root stock block (Rhizome bank in case of bamboo).  
(iv) Net house   
(v) Irrigation facilities   
(vi) Hi-tech greenhouse having insect proof netting on sides and fogging and misting systems.  
(vii) Hardening/maintenance in insect proof net house with light screening properties and sprinkler irrigation system.  
(viii) Pump house to provide sufficient irrigation to the plants and water storage tank to meet at least 2 days requirement.  
(ix) Soil solarization - steam sterilization system with boilers.  

Small nurseries with an area of upto 1.00 ha, will have provision for naturally ventilated green houses and net houses. Small nurseries will produce 25,000 plants of the mandated perennial vegetatively propagated fruit plants / tree spices / plantation crops aromatic plants per year, duly certified for its quality. Nurseries will also be regulated under legislation in force relating to seeds and planting material. Efforts will be made to establish nurseries at production cluster itself.  

Nurseries will be encouraged to go in for accreditation. Planting material for MIDH will be procured only from accredited nurseries. The AAP would have area expansion target only upto the level of availability of good quality planting material from accredited nurseries. SHM will also ensure that all nurseries set up under MIDH are accredited within period of eighteen months through designated agencies like National Horticulture Board, State Agricultural Universities, ICAR institutes etc.  

Nurseries in the Public and Private sector can avail assistance to upgrade nursery infrastructure to meet accreditation norms. Moreover, NHB will take up projects for setting up mother block and root stock nursery, as well as nursery accreditation with 100% assistance to public sector as per norms given in Annexure VII.  

CDB will arrange production and distribution of quality planting material for coconut through Demonstration cum seed production farms, Regional Nurseries and Nucleus coconut seed farm, as  
76

--- Page 78 ---

per norms given in Annexure VIII.  

The support to Bamboo nurseries will be provided as per norms at Annexure-VI.  

Tissue Culture Units

New Tissue Culture (TC) units will be established and assistance will be provided for rehabilitation/ strengthening of existing TC Units. New TC units will produce 25 lakh plants of the mandated crop for which protocols are available for commercial use, except Date palm. In the event of production of lesser number of plants, cost of lab will be reduced on a pro rata basis (subject to its viability). New TC unit projects for public sector will be sanctioned to only those agencies, which have requisite technical manpower. No recurring expenditure for the manpower and contingencies will be borne under MIDH. Each TC unit would get itself accredited as per standards and norms of Department of Bio Technology within eighteen months from the date of receiving funds, failing which the assistance provided under the scheme will have to be returned.

Vegetable Seed Production

Estimated cost of vegetable seed production is Rs. 35,000 per ha for open pollinated crops and Rs. 1.50 lakh per ha for hybrid vegetable seeds. Assistance will be provided @ 100% of total cost to public sector. In the case of Private sector, assistance will be 50% of cost as credit linked back ended subsidy. Assistance will be available for a maximum area of 5 ha @ per beneficiary. 

Production of ‘disease-free vegetable seedlings’ will be encouraged for hybrid cultivars. Wherever necessary, ‘plug technology’ and environment control for germination, growth and hardening of vegetable seedlings may be introduced. The infrastructure facilities will include a greenhouse with maximum area of 10,000 sq. meters, including hardening facilities, designed for tropical conditions, with insect netting on sides and rolling poly sheets. The plants will be propagated in plastic trays having small plugs of varying sizes for different crops. Sprinkler irrigation system will be installed. The infrastructure for media sterilization i.e. steam boiler, holding bins, etc will also be provided. Total cost will not exceed Rs. 104.00 lakh for a unit with one ha or Rs. 1040 per sq.m. Assistance will be 100% of cost to Public sector and 50% as credit linked back ended subsidy to Private sector.

MUSHROOM PRODUCTION

In case of mushroom, assistance will be provided for setting up of individual mushroom production, spawn production and compost making units, as per the details given in Annexure V.

REJUVENATION / REPLACEMENT OF SENILE PLANTATIONS / CANOPY MANAGEMENT

Rejuvenation programme will address orchards and plantations which have low productivity. It will be implemented through individual farmers, farmers’ cooperatives, Self-Help Groups, growers’ associations and commodity organizations. Assistance for rejuvenating/replanting senile

--- Page 79 ---

plantations will be @ 50% of the cost limited to 2 ha per beneficiary (Annexure V). Assistance will be available only in respect of rejuvenating/replanting senile and unproductive plantations through proven technologies. However, assistance will depend on the nature and requirement of particular crop. Canopy management will address maintenance of tree architecture as a means for productivity enhancement, particularly for fruit crops and high density plantations. In case of seedling origin, uneconomical orchards will be considered for replanting with improved varieties.

In the case of bamboo, improvement of existing stock in non-forest areas will be taken up as per norms given in Annexure VI.

Similarly, in the case of coconut, replanting and rejuvenation of old norms coconut gardens will be taken up as per norms given in Annexure VIII.

CREATION OF WATER SOURCES
Under the Mission, assistance will be provided for creating water sources through construction of community tanks, farm ponds/reservoirs with plastic/RCC lining to ensure lifesaving irrigation to horticulture crops (Annexure V and Annexure VI). This will be in conjunction with MNREGS and wherever possible adequate convergence has to be ensured. These water bodies may be linked with Micro Irrigation facility for judicious use of water. Assistance under NHM will be limited to cost of plastic/RCC lining. Lining material should conform to BIS standards. However, where MGNREGS assistance is not available, 100% assistance, including the cost of plastic/RCC lining will be provided. Maintenance of the water source will be the responsibility of the community. Assistance would also be provided for creating water source through construction of farm ponds/tube wells/dug wells for individuals. For smaller size of the ponds/tube wells/dug wells, cost will be admissible on pro rata basis depending upon the command area. This will also be in conjunction with MGNREGS. However, for non MGNREGS beneficiaries, assistance @ 50% of cost will be provided including the cost of plastic/RCC lining. Lining material should conform to BIS standards. Maintenance of the asset will be the responsibility of beneficiary.

PROTECTED CULTIVATION
Activities like construction of green houses, shade net house, plastic mulching, and plastic tunnels, anti-bird/hail nets would be promoted under the Mission (Annexure V). NHB will implement projects having area above 2500 sq. m (Annexure VII). Provision has been made for selecting a variety of construction material for green houses and shade net houses. Preference will be given to using locally available material to minimize cost of construction of such structures. However, for availing/subsidy assistance, all material/technologies should conform to BIS standards.

PRECISION FARMING DEVELOPMENT AND EXTENSION THROUGH PFDCs
Existing Precision Farming Development Centers (PFDC) will be involved to develop regionally
78

--- Page 80 ---

differentiated technologies for their validation and dissemination. Twenty two PFDCs are anchored in SAUs, ICAR Institute and IIT, Kharagpur. On account of their experience in conducting applied research on plasticulture application, they have expertise in terms of manpower and equipment. PFDCs will be equipped with necessary hardware and software needed for generating information on precision farming techniques on the farmers’ field. The ultimate goal is to provide requisite information to farmers so that they are in a position to apply necessary inputs. Other organizations like ICAR Institutes and Institutes in Private sector will also be involved in technology development. For this purpose financial assistance would be provided to PFDCs from MIDH on project basis through the SHMs. PFDCs will take up the activities such as trials, demonstrations for plasticulture and precision farming technologies for horticulture crops, survey to ascertain field adoption of the technology, training of farmers/ officials, display centre, publicity etc. PFDCs will submit annual plan for their activity to SHM with a copy to NCPAAH, well in advance.

PROMOTION OF INTEGRATED NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT (INM) AND INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT (IPM)

Assistance for Integrated Nutrient Management (INM) and Integrated Pest Management (IPM) measures will be provided for horticultural crops as well as bamboo, as indicated in Annexure-V and Annexure-VI respectively. Assistance will also be available for developing facilities like Disease Forecasting Units (DFUs), Bio Control Labs, Plant Health Clinics and Leaf/Tissue Analysis labs, both under Public and Private sector except for DFUs, which will be only in Public sector. It will be the responsibility of the beneficiary to get the bio control agents registered for commercial sale.

Under INM component, subsidy can be availed for use of liquid bio fertilizers of N, P and K such as Rhizobium/Azospirillum/Azotobactor, Phosphate Solubilising Bacteria (PSB) and Potash Mobilizing Bacteria (KMB), to be applied in combination, in demonstration and other programmes, for which total assistance will be limited to 50% of cost, or Rs. 300.00 per ha., for a maximum area of four ha per beneficiary

ORGANIC FARMING

Organic farming in horticulture will be promoted to harness environmental and economic benefits by way of adoption of organic farming techniques along with its certification. For adopting organic farming for perennial and non-perennial fruit crops, vegetables, aromatic plants, spices etc., additional assistance will be given @ 50% of cost over and above the area expansion programme for a maximum area of 4 ha per beneficiary, spread over a period of three years. For organic cultivation of vegetables, assistance will be limited to Rs. 10,000/- per ha spread over a period of three years. Assistance will be used for generating on-farm inputs. NHM will also provide financial assistance for establishing vermi compost units and HDPE Vermibeds @ 50% of cost subject to a maximum of Rs.
79

--- Page 81 ---

50,000/- per beneficiary for a unit having size of 30' x 8' x 2.5'. For smaller units, assistance will be on prorata basis. For HDPE Vermibed of 96 cft size (12'x4'x2'), the cost will be Rs. 16,000/ per bed and assistance will be limited to 50% of cost. Specification and design parameters of Agro Textiles - HDPE woven beds for vermiculture will conform to BIS standards (IS 15907:2010). Organic certification will be guided by service providers and certification agencies accredited by APEDA.

GOOD AGRICULTURE PRACTICES (GAP)
GAP certification has been introduced to encourage farmers to adopt good agricultural practices in line with global GAP, so that farmers are able to get better price for their produce in domestic as well as international market. Assistance for this purpose will be @ 50% of cost for maximum area of four ha per beneficiary (Annexure V). Certification agencies to be involved for this will be as per list approved by APEDA.

CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE FOR HORTICULTURE
Centres of Excellence may be established for different horticultural products which will serve as demonstration and training centres as well as source of planting material and vegetable seedlings under protected cultivation.

HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT (HRD) IN HORTICULTURE
Under HRD programme, training of farmers, entrepreneurs, field level workers and officers will be taken up. Programme for providing appropriate training to farmers for adoption of high yielding varieties of crops and farming system will be taken up at state level and outside the state. Programme for training of officials concerned with implementation field level workers who will in turn train/guide farmers will also be taken up (Annexure V & Annexure VI). Assistance for organizing training courses for Supervisors, Entrepreneurs, Gardeners and Field Functionaries will be continued during XII Plan. Training programme for Supervisors, Entrepreneurs will be organised through selected State Agricultural Universities (SAU), ICAR Institutes, Deemed Universities/Private Universities recognized by UGC having faculty in horticulture and Gardeners training through Krishi Vigyan Kendras and SAUs/ Deemed Universities/Private Universities recognized by UGC recognized by UGC having faculty in horticulture, while departmental staff will be trained under various ongoing training programmes. Training expenses will be met by the Mission. Minimum qualification for Supervisory & Entrepreneurs training programme would be Higher Secondary and for Gardeners it would be Class-VIII (Middle) standard. Institutions identified for training should have minimum infrastructure facilities including class rooms, staff, hostel facilities etc. The courses will be of one year duration for Supervisors and of six months for Gardeners and of three months for Entrepreneurs. In order to attract the candidates and more importantly retain them and prevent their drop out, a monthly stipend will be provided in form of boarding & lodging charges. These courses will be residential. At the end of

--- Page 82 ---

the training, Supervisors will be awarded a Diploma in horticulture, while Gardeners and Entrepreneurs will be awarded a Certificate of training in horticulture. At least 25 Supervisors, 50 Gardeners and 25 Entrepreneurs will be trained in each participating institution annually.
In case States wish to organize specialized training courses on horticulture related subjects, assistance will beprovided for the same to concerned Institutes directly, based on recommendation of concerned State (s). Suchtraining would generally be of short duration of 7 - 10 days for 20 to 25 participants. Trainers, who are required to train others, can be deputed abroad for training, for which assistance would be made available for meeting the travel cost and course fee. Concerned State Departments of Horticulture/ Agriculture/SHM function as nodal agency for this purpose. Funds will be made available to SHMs for meeting expenses of candidates involved in implementation of Mission programmes based on their specific proposal.

POLLINATION SUPPORT THROUGH BEE-KEEPING
In order to maximize agricultural production, honey-bee can be used as an important input. The responsibility of coordinating the bee-keeping development programme in State will be vested in the identified State Designated Agency (SDA) or any institution/society having capability. National Bee Board (NBB) will be responsible for coordinating beekeeping activity in states.
Assistance will be available for activities on development of nucleus stock of honey bees, bee breeding,distribution of honey bee colonies hives and bee keeping equipment’s (Annexure V).

HORTICULTURE MECHANIZATION
Horticulture mechanization is aimed to improve farm efficiency and reduce drudgery of farm work force. Assistance in this regard will be provided for activities such as procurement of power operated machines & tools, besides import of new machines (Annexure V). Assistance for horticulture mechanization will also be available to such grower associations, farmer groups, Self Help Groups, women farmer groups having at least 10 members, who are engaged in cultivation of horticultural crops, provided balance 60% of the cost of machines and tools is borne by such groups. SHM will enter in to MoU with such association/groups to ensure proper upkeep, running and maintenance of the machines and tools.

TECHNOLOGY DISSEMINATION THROUGH DEMONSTRATIONS/ FRONT LINE DEMONSTRATION
Latest technologies will be promoted on crop specific cultivation, use of IPM/INM, protected cultivation, organic farming through farmer participatory demonstration in a compact area of one ha, which will be organized at strategic locations in farmer’s field for which assistance will be limited to 75% of cost. For green house cultivation, area will be limited to 500 sq. meter. Farms in public sector, SAUs, Deemed Universities having faculty in horticulture, could be sites for Front Line Demonstrations, for which 100% assistance will be provided, and maximum assistance will not exceed Rs. 25 lakh per project. Demonstration on bamboo will be taken up as per norms indicated in Annexure VI and on coconut as pernorms given in Annexure VIII. 

81

--- Page 83 ---

INTEGRATED POST HARVEST MANAGEMENT

Under post-harvest management, including that for Medicinal plants, activities like handling, grading, Pre- conditioning, packaging, transient storage, transportation, distribution, curing and ripening and where possible long term storage can be taken up. Existing schemes of the Directorate of Marketing and Inspection (DMI) and National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) will be leveraged to the extent possible. MIDH would include projects relating to establishment of pre-cooling units, ‘on-farm’ pack houses, mobile pre-cooling units, staging cold rooms, cold storage units with and without controlled atmosphere capability, integrated cold chain system, supply of refrigerated vans, refrigerated containers, primary/mobile processing units, ripening chambers, evaporative/low energy cool chambers, preservation units, onion storage units andzero energy cool chambers. These projects will be entrepreneur driven and provided credit linked back-endedsubsidy. PSUs/Government agencies/ Cooperatives/growers’ association recognized/registered by the DMCs, having at least 25 members, will also be entitled to avail assistance for such activities. They may avail back ended subsidy without credit link, subject to condition that they are able to meet their share of the project cost.

COLD CHAIN INFRASTRUCTURE

Assistance for setting up of new cold storage infrastructure will be available only to multi-chamber cold storage units with technologies which are energy efficient with provision for thermal insulation, humidity control, advanced cooling systems, automation, etc., having specifications and standards approved by theMinistry. While Cold storages (Long term storage and distribution hubs) upto 5000 MT capacity will be promoted under NHM/HMNEH sub-schemes (Annexure V), capacity above 5000 MT upto 10000 MT will be promoted under NHB sub-scheme (Annexure VII). In this context, for cold storages, 3.4 cubic metres (cum.) (120 cubic feet (cft.) of chamber volume shall be considered equivalent to one MT of storage capacity.Similarly, for refrigerated transport, 3 cum (106 cft) of chamber volume shall be equivalent to one MT of storage capacity and for ripening chambers, 11 cum of chamber volume shall be equivalent to one MT of storage capacity. Assistance for pre cooling unit will be linked to pack-houses and cold rooms (staging). Similarly assistance for staging cold room will be linked to existing & new pre-coolers. Extant specifications standards and protocols on cold storage and cold-chain components will be adhered to while approving cold storage projects. Revisions to technical standards and adherence protocols shall be updated by National Centre for Cold-chain Development (NCCD) as necessary when improved technologies and efficiencies are introduced/understood/approved. Assistance can also be availed for a combination of PHM infrastructure components by a beneficiary, within the prescribed norms of individual items. Assistance will be available to individuals, Group of farmers/ growers/ consumers, Partnership/ Proprietary firms, Self Help Groups (SHGs), Farmers Producer Organization (FPOs), Companies, Corporations, Cooperatives, Cooperative Marketing Federations, Local bodies, AgriculturalProduce Market Committees (APMC) &

82

--- Page 84 ---

Marketing Boards and State Governments. Assistance will also be available for taking up cold chain components so as to integrate the activities into a single project, as a new component during XII Plan. In the case of bamboo, PHM will include post-harvest storage and treatment facilities for bamboo, as per norms given in Annexure VI. Proposals on long distance transport solutions on project basis shall be supported under NHB sub-scheme.

CREATION OF MARKET INFRASTRUCTURE
Main objectives of providing assistance under this component are (a) to encourage investments from private and cooperative sectors in the development of marketing infrastructure for horticulture commodities (b) strengthen existing horticulture markets including wholesale and rural markets; (c) focus on promotion of grading, standardization and quality certification of horticulture produce at farm/market level to enable farmers to realize better price; and (d) create general awareness among farmers, consumers, entrepreneurs and market functionaries on market related agricultural practices. Assistance under the Scheme will be provided as credit linked back ended subsidy for setting up whole sale markets, rural markets/apni mandis and retail markets. In case of Terminal markets, assistance will be provided in accordance with approved norms, for which guidelines have been issued separately, and available on the NHM website. Assistance will also be provided for setting up static / mobile vending cart/ platform with cool chamber. Assistance will also be extended for setting up functional infrastructure as creditlinked back ended subsidy. Assistance for setting up markets will only be given to those States/UTs which have amended their State Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act and have also notified the amended rules there underto implement the provisions for:
a) Setting up of new markets in private and cooperative sector;
b) Direct marketing (sourcing of horticulture produce directly from growers by wholesalers/ bulk retailers/ processors/ exporters/ end users). (If trade transaction of horticulture perishables takes place outside the market-yard, no market fee should be levied)
c) Doing away with requirement of having a premise within the market yard for grant of license.
d) Contract farming and.
e) Waivers of market fee on perishable horticulture produce.
f) Assistance will be available to individuals, Group of farmers/growers/consumers, Partnership/ Proprietary firms, Self Help Groups (SHGs), Farmers Producer Organization (FPOs), Companies, Corporations, Cooperatives, Cooperative Marketing Federations, Local bodies, Agricultural Produce Market Committees(APMC) & Marketing Boards and State Governments. Projects submitted by only those APMCs will be considered for assistance, which do not levy market cess on horticulture produce. Cost of land involved in infrastructure projects will be restricted to 15 percent of project cost in rural areas and 25 percent in urban areas. The entrepreneur will not alienate land during period of 83

--- Page 85 ---

loan for any purpose other than the purpose for which project is sanctioned. A separate undertaking from entrepreneur is required to be included in this regard in the DPR. Size of project will be determined on basis of economic viability and commercial considerations; Quality control / analysis lab has been included under the Mission wherein assistance will be provided for setting up quality control labs having necessary infrastructure and manpower facility to check quality of horticultural produce vis-à-vis international standards (Annexure V).

g) In the case of bamboo, assistance will be extended for setting up Bamboo Bazaars, Bamboo wholesale retail markets near villages and retail outlets as per norms indicated in Annexure VI.

PROCESSING & VALUE ADDITION
h) Processing of horticultural produce and value addition is an important activity. While primary/ minimal processing units will be promoted under NHM, large scale processing units will be promoted by Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MFPI), out of their ongoing Schemes. However, food processing units in Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand will be promoted under HMNEH sub scheme as per norms indicted in Annexure V.
i) The NHB will take up projects on product promotion, market information and market intelligence services for horticulture crops. CDB will take up similar services for coconut.

INSURANCE SCHEMES ON COCONUT
j) The CDB will implement schemes on (i) Coconut Palm Insurance and (ii) Kera Suraksha Insurance for the benefit of Coconut growers, as per norms given in Annexure VIII.
k) The MIDH will encourage organization of farmers into FPOs/FPCs & guidelines issued by Small Farmers’ Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC) from time to time for aggregation of FPOs will prevail.

PROCESSING & VALUE ADDITION
l) Processing of horticultural produce and value addition is an important activity. While primary/ minimal processing units will be promoted under NHM, large scale processing units will be promoted by Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MFPI), out of their ongoing Schemes. However, food processing units in Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand will be promoted under HMNEH sub scheme as per norms indicted in Annexure V.
m) The NHB will take up projects on product promotion, market information and market intelligence services for horticulture crops. CDB will take up similar services for coconut.

INSURANCE SCHEMES ON COCONUT
n) The CDB will implement schemes on (i) Coconut Palm Insurance and (ii) Kera Suraksha Insurance for the benefit of Coconut growers, as per norms given in Annexure VIII.
o) The MIDH will encourage organization of farmers into FPOs/FPCs & guidelines issued by Small Farmers’ Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC) from time to time for aggregation of FPOs will prevail.
84

--- Page 86 ---

8. MISSION MANAGEMENT

SUPPORT TO STATE HORTICULTURE MISSION/IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES

p) For managing various activities of Mission at State & District Mission offices and implementing agencies for administrative expenses, Consultants at State & District level, project preparation, computerization, contingency etc, 5% of total annual expenditure will be provided to State Horticulture Missions/implementing Agencies. State/implementing agencies will make provision for this in their Annual Action Plan. Separate provision will be available for awareness generation and promotional programmes on horticulture, as per prescribed norms.

INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING / F P O FORMATION

q) Mission Head Quarter at National & State level and that of NHB and CDB will be strengthened for database creation and collection, use of Information Technology, development of software and procurement of hardware, hiring of vehicle etc, for which funding will be made under TSG component of the Mission. Assistance will be available for strengthening / promoting Farmer Interest Groups (FIG), Farmer Producer Organizations (FPO) and Growers Associations involved in development of Horticulture crops.

HORTICULTURE DATABASE

r) Provision has been made for strengthening horticulture statistical database, which will be implemented through active involvement of SHMs, Directorate of Horticulture and Institutes like Indian Agricultural Statistical Research Institute etc. on a project mode. Institutions like IASRI will be engaged as NLA for undertaking specific project on horticulture statistics.

SUPPORT TO NATIONAL LEVEL ORGANIZATIONS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT

s) The MIDH, within the ambit of sub missions, shall provide funds to National level organizations including cooperatives and FPOs for taking up innovative projects in the area of horticulture development, post-harvest management, processing and marketing depending upon the soundness of its financial position and previous experience. Funding will be provided under the relevant components of the Mission.

COLLABORATION WITH INTERNATIONAL AGENCIES

t) Attempts will be made to collaborate with international agencies like FAO, World Bank, Asian Development Bank and countries which have a developed modern horticulture sector for taking up programmes for development of horticulture. FAO has a Unilateral Trust Fund (UTF) programme under which there is provision to operate projects on mutually agreed terms and conditions. Under collaborative programme, activities to be undertaken would include import of planting material, hiring of International Domain Experts, organize study tours and organize training programmes under aegis of MIDH. Funds for this

--- Page 87 ---

purpose will be earmarked in Annual Budget of Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India (DAC), under TSG component of the Mission. However for implementing project under bi-lateral agreement or multi-lateral agency undertaking, programme funds shall be utilized.

EVALUATION & OTHER STUDIES

u) Term end evaluation will be conducted at the end of the XII Plan. Concurrent evaluation will also be carried out by engaging suitable agencies. Assistance for such studies will be on project basis. The MIDH will commission short term studies on various aspects of horticulture depending on need and emerging requirements. Such studies will also be on project basis. Monitoring Missions, comprising of experts will be sent to States from time to time by National Mission, which will be organized through the TSG. States will also conduct evaluation studies on project basis under State level TSG component.

9. ROLE OF NATIONAL LEVEL AGENCIES

v) National Horticulture Board (NHB), Gurgaon NHB will implement programmes as sub-scheme of MIDH (Annexure VII). NHB will also house the national level TSG besides the TSG for NHM and NBM and extend administrative, logistical and personnel support towards the implementation of NHM and NBM. Details about NHB are available on its web site (www.nhb. gov.in). Coconut Development Board, Kochi CDB will implement programmes as sub-scheme of MIDH (Annexure VIII). It will also house the TSG for coconut related programme. Details about CDB are available on its web site (www.coconutboard.nic.in). Small Farmer’s Agri-Business Consortium (SFAC), New Delhi Small Farmers Agri-business Consortium (SFAC) (www.sfacindia.com) will provide necessary handholding with regard to the NE and Himalayan States. It will be lead agency for the formation of of Farmers’ Associations/ Groups and their tie-up with financial institutions and market aggregators. It will also house the TSG for HMNEH, CIH and VIUC schemes. Directorate of Cashew and Cocoa Development (DCCD), Kochi DCCD (www.dccd.gov.in) will be responsible for implementing, coordinating and monitoring activities relating to plantation crops, excluding coconut and arecanut and will also be responsible for organizing National level training programmes, seminars & workshops on cashew and cocoa on regular intervals (Annexure V).

10. Directorate of Arecanut and Spices Development (DASD), Calicut

w) DASD will be responsible for implementing, coordinating and monitoring the activities on development of arecanut, spices, and aromatic plants and will be responsible for organizing National level training programmes, seminars and workshops on Arecanut, spices and medicinal & aromatic plants on regularintervals (Annexure V).

x) National Committee on Plasticulture Applications in Agriculture & Horticulture (NCPAAH), New Delhi NCPAH (www.ncpahindia.com) will be responsible for coordinating and monitoring activities relating to micro irrigation, precision farming and hi-tech horticulture implemented through SHMs and Precision Farming Development Centres (PFDCs) (Annexure V).

y) National Horticulture Research & Development Foundation, Nashik

z) National Horticulture Research & Development Foundation (NHRDF), Nashik (www.nhrdf.com) will be responsible for implementing programmes relating to development of vegetables including production and supply of quality seeds (Annexure V). 

86

--- Page 88 ---

aa) National Bee Board (NBB)
bb) National Bee Board (NBB) (www.nbb.gov.in) will be responsible for providing technical support as well as implementation of promotional programmes relating to beekeeping (Annexure V).
cc) National Seeds Corporation, New Delhi
dd) National Seeds Corporation (NSC) (www.indiaseeds.com) will be responsible for taking up programmes for production and supply of good quality seed and planting material (Annexure V).
ee) National Research Centre for Citrus, Nagpur
ff) National Research Centre for Citrus (NRCC), Nagpur (www.nrccitrus. nic.in) will be implementing the mission mode programme on Technology Mission on Citrus (Annexure V).

87

--- Page 89 ---

RE-VAMPED NATIONAL FOOD SECURITY MISSION (NFSM) 

OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES

S.No. Contents Page No.
Part –I (A) National Food Security Mission (NFSM) Foodgrain Crops
1 Introduction 1
2 Objectives 2
3 Strategy 2
4 Structure 3
4.1 National Level 3
4.2 State Level 5
4.3 District Level 7
4.4 Project Management Team 8
5 Role of Panchayati Raj Institution 9
6 Area of Operation of Security Mission 9
7 Mechanism of Fund Flow 10
8 Procedure for Approval and Implementation 11
9 Monitoring mechanism 12
10 Reporting System 13
11 Evaluation 13
12 Criteria for Identification of Areas and Beneficiaries 14
13 Position of Ongoing Schemes 14
14 Interventions 15
14.1 Accelerated Crop Production Programme (ACPP) 15
14.2 Need based inputs (Seed, Nutrients, Soil Ameliorants,Bio Fertilizers, Plant Protection, FarmMachines and Training) 19
14.3 Commercial Crop-based cropping system 25
14.4 Research support 25
14.5 Other initiative 26
14.6 Exposure visit to international organizations 29
14.7 Awards 30
14.8 Miscellaneous Expenses 30
Annexure-I (a) Basic qualification, experience and honorarium ofAdvisors/Consultants/ Technical Assistant 31
Annexure-I (b) Crop wise No. of Districts and No. of State and DistrictPMT in NFSM States 36
Annexure-I (c) Name of PMT Districts and states 37
Annexure-I (d) Duties of Consultants/TAs engaged atnational/State/district levels 43
Annexure-I (e) NFSM model activity plan (MAP) 47

--- Page 90 ---

Annexure-II (a) Districts covered under NFSM-Rice 50
Annexure-II (b) Districts covered under NFSM-Wheat 53
Annexure-II (c) Districts covered under NFSM-Pulses 55
Annexure-II (d) Districts covered under NFSM-Coarse Cereals (Maize & Barley) 65
Annexure-III (a) Action Plan for NFSM-Rice 70
Annexure-III (b) Action Plan for NFSM-Wheat 72
Annexure-III (c) Action Plan for NFSM-Pulses 74
Annexure-III (d) Action Plan for NFSM-Coarse Cereals 77
Annexure-IV (a) Quarterly/Annual Progress Report of NFSM-Rice 78
Annexure-IV (a-i) Progress of component-wise SC/ST and women farmers being benefitted from NFSM-Rice 81
Annexure-IV (b) Quarterly/Annual Progress Report of NFSM-Wheat 82
Annexure-IV (b-i) Progress of component-wise SC/ST and women farmers being benefitted from NFSM-Wheat 84
Annexure-IV (c) Quarterly/Annual Progress Report of NFSM-Pulses 85
Annexure-IV (c-i) Progress of component-wise SC/ST and women farmers being benefitted from NFSM-Pulses 89
Annexure-IV (d) Quarterly/Annual Progress Report of NFSM-Coarse Cereals 90
Annexure-IV (d-i) Progress of component-wise SC/ST and women farmers being benefitted from NFSM-Coarse Cereals 91
Annexure-V Summary of Pattern of Assistance 92
Annexure-VI Cafeteria of Interventions for Cluster Demonstration 106
Annexure-VII Component-wise financial provision for promotion of FPOs and marketing support for value chain integration 110
Part –I (B) National Food Security Mission (NFSM) Nutri Cereals

--- Page 91 ---

1 Introduction 112
2 Objective 113
3 Interventions/ Strategies Proposed 113
4 Criteria for selection of Districts 114
5 Demonstration 115
5.1 Size of cluster demonstration 115
5.2 Cluster Front Line Demonstrations (CFLDs) 117
6 Need based inputs 119
7 Incentives for seed Production 121
8 Seed Minikits Programme of Nutri- Cereals 121
9 Value chain integration of small producers 122
9.1 Farmer Producer Organizations 122
9.2 Demonstration cum Training Centres 123
9.3 Processing Cluster 123
10 Research Support 124
11 Flexi Interventions 126
12 Awareness, Publicity and Promotion 127
13 Reporting System 129
Annexure-VIII (a) Name of Districts covered (identified) under Sub-mission on Nutri-Cereals (2018-19 and 2019-20) 130
Annexure-VIII (b) Cafeteria for Block demonstration of Millets 136
Annexure-VIII (c) Action Plan for NFSM-Nutri Cereals 137
Annexure-VIII (d) Quarterly/Annual Progress Report on NFSM-Nutri
Cereals 141
Annexure-VIII (d-i) Progress of component-wise SC/ST and women farmers
being benefitted from NFSM-Nutri Cereals 144

--- Page 92 ---

TABLE OF CONTENTS

S.No.    Contents                                                 Page No.

Part-II National Food Security Mission (NFSM) Commercial Crops

1        Introduction                                             146
2        Funding Pattern                                          147
3        Implementing Agencies                                    147
4        Role of Panchayati Raj Institution                       148
5        Procedure for Approval and Implementation                148
6        Monitoring Mechanism                                     149
7        Evaluation                                               149
8        Reporting                                                150
9        Components of NFSM-Commercial Crops                      150
10       Cotton based cropping system                             151
10.1     Insecticide Resistance Management (IRM)                  151
10.2     On Line Pest Monitoring and Advisory Services (OPMAS)    151
10.3     Front Line Demonstration (FLD)                           152
10.4     Trials on High Density Planting System (HDPS)            152
10.5     National / State Level Training                          153
10.6     Distribution of plant protection chemicals & bio-agents  154
11       Jute & Allied fibres Based Cropping Systems              155
11.1     Jute seed production                                     155
11.2     FLDs on alternate retting technologies                   156
11.3     FLDs on production technology/intercropping              156
11.4     National / State level training                          157
11.5     Distribution of certified seeds, nail weeder & microbial consortium 157
12       Surgarcane Based Cropping System                         158
12.1     Demonstration on Intercropping & single bud chiptechnology with sugarcane 158
12.2     Assistance for breeder seed production                   158
12.3     Tissue culture raised plantlets/seedlings                158
12.4     National /State level training                           159
12.5     Distribution of plant protection chemicals & bio-agents  159
Annexure-IX   Commercial crop based cropping system linked withfood crops  160
Annexure-X (a) Action Plan for NFSM-Cotton                        161

--- Page 93 ---

Annexure-X (b)	Action Plan for NFSM-Jute & Allied Fibres	162
Annex-X (c)	Action Plan for NFSM-Sugarcane	163
Annexure-XI	Quarterly progress report of Insecticides Resistance Management (IRM) under Cotton	164
Annexure-XII	Annual progress report of IRM under Cotton	165
Annexure-XIII	Quarterly progress of OPMAS under Cotton	166
Annexure-XIV	Annual progress report of OPMAS under Cotton	167
Annexure-XV	Quarterly/Annual Progress Report of NFSM-Cotton	168
Annexure-XVI	Quarterly/Annual Progress Report of NFSM-Jute & Allied Fibres	169
Annexure-XVII	Quarterly / Annual Progress Report of NFSM-Sugarcane	170
Annexure-XVIII	Components and Pattern of Assistance under NFSM-Commercial Crops	171

92

--- Page 94 ---

S.No. Contents Page No.
Part – III National Food Security Mission (NFSM) Oilseeds & Oil Palm
1 Introduction 175
2 Objectives / Targets 177
3 Strategy 177
4 Structure 178
4.1 National Level 178
4.2 State Level 179
4.3 District Level 179
5 Funding Pattern & Fund Flow 180
6 Area of Operation 183
7 Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 183
7.1 Monitoring or Evaluation 183
7.2 Reporting System 184
7.3 Awards 184
8 Intervention 185
8.1 NFSM-Oilseeds 185
8.2 NFSM-Oil Palm 198
8.3 NFSM-TBOs 204
Annexure-XIX Pattern of sharing and Rate of Assistance for various interventions of NFSM-Oilseeds 208
Annexure-XX Format for submission of Annual Action Plan for NFSM (OS & OP)) 213
Annexure-XXI Format for submission of Monthly/Quarterly Progress Report (MRP/QRP) under NFSM-Oilseeds 219
Annexure-XXII Format for submission of Monthly/Quarterly Progress Report (MRP/QRP) of TRFA under NFSM-Oilseeds 220
Annexure-XXIII Pattern of sharing and Rate of Assistance for various interventions of NFSMM-Oil Palm w.e.f. 2018-19 221
Annexure-XXIV Pattern for submission of Annual Action Plan under NFSM-Oil Palm 226
Annexure-XXV Format for submission of monthly and quarterly progress report NFSM-Oil Palm 228
Annexure-XXVI Pattern of sharing and Rate of Assistance for various interventions of NFSM-TBOs w.e.f. 2018-19 231
Annexure-XXVII Format for submission of Annual Action Plan NFSM-TBOs 235

--- Page 95 ---

Annexure-XXVIII Format for submission of monthly and quarterly progress report NFSM-TBOs 236

National Food Security Mission (NFSM) (Food grain Crops)

Re-vamped National Food Security Mission (NFSM) Operational Guidelines (Foodgrain Crops)

1. Introduction

The National Development Council (NDC) in its 53rd meeting held on 29th May, 2007 adopted a resolution to launch a Food Security Mission comprising rice, wheat and pulses to increase the annual production of rice by 10 million tonnes, wheat by 8 million tonnes and pulses by 2 million tonnes by the end of the Eleventh Plan (2011-12). Accordingly, a Centrally Sponsored Scheme, 'National Food Security Mission' (NFSM), was launched in October 2007. The Mission met with an overwhelming success and achieved the targeted additional production of rice, wheat and pulses. The Mission continued during 12th Five Year Plan with new targets of additional production of food grains of 25 million tonnes of food grains comprising of 10 million tonnes rice, 8 million tonnes of wheat, 4 million tonnes of pulses and 3 million tonnes of coarse cereals by the end of 12th Five Year Plan. Considering the experience and feedback received from the States major changes were made in approach, norms of financial assistance and programme implementation strategy which are reflected in the revised operational guidelines. Based on past experience and performance of 12th Plan, it has been decided to continue the programme beyond 12th plan i.e. 2017-18 to 2019-20, which is co-terminus with Fourteenth Finance Commission (FFC) period with new targets to achieve 13 million tonnes of additional foodgrains production comprising of Rice – 5 million tonnes, Wheat- 3 million tonnes, Pulses- 3 million tonnes and Coarse Cereals- 2 million tonnes by 2019-20.

The National Food Security Mission (NFSM), during the 12th Five Year

--- Page 96 ---

Plan, had five components (i) NFSM-Rice; (ii) NFSM-Wheat; (iii) NFSM-Pulses; (iv) NFSM-Coarse Cereals; and (v) NFSM-Commercial Crops. During 2017-18, the programme was implemented with components/ interventions/ cost norms/ pattern of assistance of 12th plan. On the basis of EFC recommendations which was held on 29.11.2017, from the years 2018-19 and 2019-20, NMOOP and Seed Village Programme are now a part of NFSM and thus NFSM will have eight components viz. (i) NFSM-Rice; (ii) NFSM-Wheat; (iii) NFSM-Pulses; (iv) NFSM-Coarse Cereals (Maize, Barley), (v) NFSM-Sub Mission on Nutri Cereals; (vi) NFSM-Commercial Crops; (vii) NFSM- Oilseeds and Oilpalm; and (viii) NFSM-Seed Village Programme. These Operational Guidelines are for NFSM-Foodgrains, Commercial Crops, Oilseeds and Oilpalm, Seed Village Programme and Sub Mission on Nutri-cereals. 
2. Objectives 
Increasing production of rice, wheat, pulses, coarse cereals (Maize and Barley) and Nutri-Cereals through area expansion and productivity enhancement in a sustainable manner in the identified districts of the country; Restoring soil fertility and productivity at the individual farm level; and Enhancing farm level economy (i.e. farm profits) to restore confidence amongst the farmers.

3. Strategy 

To achieve the above objectives, the Mission would adopt following strategies:

i. Focus on low productivity and high potential districts including cultivation of food grain crops in rain fed areas. 
ii. Implementation of cropping system centric interventions in a Mission mode approach through active engagement of all the stakeholders at various levels. 
iii. Agro-climatic zone wise planning and cluster approach for crop productivity enhancement. 
iv. Focus on pulse production through utilization of rice fallow, rice

--- Page 97 ---

bundsand intercropping of pulses with coarse cereals, oilseeds and commercial crops (sugarcane, cotton, jute).
v. Promotion and extension of improved technologies i.e., seed, integrated nutrient management (INM) including micronutrients, soil amendments, integrated pest management (IPM), input use efficiency and resource conservation technologies along with capacity building of the farmers/extension functionaries.
vi. Close monitoring of flow of funds to ensure timely reach of interventions to the target beneficiaries.
vii. Integration of various interventions and targets with the district plan of each identified district.
viii. Constant monitoring and periodic evaluation by the implementing agencies for assessing the impact of the interventions for a result oriented approach.

96

--- Page 98 ---

4. Structure
National Level

The General Council (GC) constituted under the chairmanship of the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare would continue to function beyond 12th Plan (2017-18 to 2019-20) and apart from foodgrain crops (rice/Wheat/Pulses/ Coarse Cereals) and Commercial crops this would also cover the Oilseeds/Oil Palm/Tree Borne Oilseeds, Seed Village Programme of Seeds Division and Sub-Mission on Nutri-Cereals. The Mission Director will continue to function as Member-Secretary of the GC. The composition of the GC will be as under:

(i) Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Chairman 

(ii) Secretary (AC&FW) Member 

(iii) Secretary (DARE) & DG (ICAR) Member 

(iv) Secretary, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance Member 

(v) Secretary, Department of Food and Public distribution, Ministry of Food, Consumers Affairs Member 

(vi) Secretary, Ministry of Panchayati Raj Member 

(vii) Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs Member 

(viii) Secretary, Department of Social Justice and Empowerment Member 

97

--- Page 99 ---

(ix) Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Development Member  
(x) Additional Secretary and Financial Advisor, DAC&FW Member  
(xi) Adviser (Agriculture), NITI Aayog Member  
(xii) Agriculture Commissioner ,DAC&FW Member  
(xiii) Joint Secretary, Environment, Forest & Climate Change Member  
(xiv) Mission Director , NFSM Member Secretary  

The GC is the policy making body providing suitable directives andguidance to the Mission and reviewing the overall progress and development of the scheme. The GC is empowered to lay down and amend the operational guidelines, change of the components/interventions as per the requirement and decide need based re-allocation of resources across States and districts and also approve projects as per the requirements. The GC may also include any new district bifurcated from original district provided that the new district fulfill the criteria and the request received from the State(s). The GC will meet at least twice a year.

The National Food Security Mission Executive Committee (NFSMEC) would also continue under the Chairmanship of Secretary, Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare to oversee the activities of the Mission and to approve the annual State Action Plans for foodgrain crops (Rice/Wheat/Pulses/Coarse Cereals), Commercial crops, Oilseeds/Oil Palm/Tree Borne Oilseeds, Seed Village Programme and Sub-Mission on Nutri-Cereals. Theconstitution of NFSMEC will be as under:

(i) Secretary (AC&FW) Chairman  
(ii) Secretary (DARE) & DG (ICAR) Member  
(iii) Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources Member

--- Page 100 ---

(iv) Secretary, Department of Fertilizers Member  
(v) Secretary, Department of Food & Public Distribution Member  
(vi) Secretary, Ministry of Panchayati Raj Member  
(vii) Secretary, Ministry of Tribal Affairs Member  
(viii) Secretary, of Social Justice and Member  
Departme ntEmpowerment  
(ix) Secretary, Ministry of Women and Child Member  
Development  
(x) Additional Secretary and Financial Advisor, DAC&FW Member  
(xi) ADG (Oilseeds), ICAR Member  
(xii) Agriculture Commissioner ,DAC&FW Member  
(xiii) Adviser (Agriculture), NITI Aayog Member  
(xiv) Director, Dte. of Oilseeds Research, ICAR, Member  
Hyderabad  
(xv) Director, Oil Palm Research, Pedavegi (AP) Member  
(xvi) Five experts on crop matters Member  
(xvii) Mission Director, NFSM Member Secretary  
Adviser (Agriculture), NITI Aayog Member  

The Chairman may nominate additional members to the committee as per requirement. The NFSMEC will meet once in every quarter.  

The National Food Security Mission Cells created in the Crops Division and Oilseeds Division during 11th Plan, 12th Plan, will continue beyond 12th Plan (2017-18 to 2019-20). The NFSM cell will have three Additional Commissioners, three Deputy Commissioners, two Assistant Commissioners, three Assistant Directors, three STAs and supporting staff for foodgrain crops. The programme of Oilseeds/Oil Palm/TBOs, will be  
99

--- Page 101 ---

managed by existing Technical Support Group of Oilseeds Division. As regards, Nutri-Cerals, this will be supported by the Officers of NFSM Cell for Food grain crops. As regards Seed village Programme, this will be supported by the existing staff of Seed Division. If needed, additional supporting staff may also be engaged after the approval of NFSM-GC.

State Level

The State Food Security Mission Executive Committee (SFSMEC) constituted by the State Government under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary to oversee the activities of the Mission in the State will continue. However, the States may include and invite officers responsible for erstwhile NMOOP constituent crops. The constitution of the State Food Security Mission Executive Committee (SFSMEC) will be as follows:

(i) Chief Secretary Chairman
(ii) Agriculture Production Commissioner Member
(iii) Secretary (Agriculture) Member
(iv) Secretary (Irrigation) Member
(v) Secretary (Power) Member
(vi) Secretary (Panchayati Raj) Member
(vii) Secretary (Tribal Affairs) Member
(viii) Secretary (Social Welfare Department) Member
(ix) Secretary(Food & Public Distribution) Member
(x) Vice Chancellor(s) of SAUs Member
(xi) Director Agriculture Member
(xii) Director/Project DirectorMember of ICAR Institutes 
(xiii) Representatives of Member NABARD and Lead Bank
(xiv) State Mission Director Member-Secretary

During 11th Plan State Governments nominated/created a suitable autonomous agency registered under the Societies Registration Act for implementing the Mission at the State and district levels. However, the mission has been implemented through State Government at district level

100

--- Page 102 ---

in some of the states during 12th Plan. Such an agency could be the State Agricultural Management & Extension Training Institute (SAMETI) at the State Level and the Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) at the district level. Some States directly transfer the funds through treasury to district level (Joint Director/Deputy Director, Agriculture or equivalent). The agency thus nominated will implement the Mission's programme in the State beyond 12th Plan (2017-18 to 2019-20). The State Government may consider continuation of the same system.

Separate accounts for the scheme would be maintained by the State through Public Financial Management System (PFMS), which is mandatory from April 2018. Therefore a bank account at State level has to be opened and fund to the District level Offices/Agencies has to be transferred as per the Account Code prescribed by the State Food Security Mission Executive Committee (SFSMEC). The annual accounts would be duly audited by a Chartered Accountant/Accountant General of the State every year.

The Direct Benefit transfer (DBT) would be implemented to transfer the funds to identified beneficiaries for the specified interventions of NFSM. The details of data bank related to beneficiaries would be up loaded to MIS of NFSM by the State Government agencies/departments.

The State/Department Agency will have the following responsibilities:

(i) Prepare perspective and annual State Action Plan in consonance with the Mission's goals and objectives and in close coordination with SAUs and ICAR Institutes.

(ii) Organize / conduct base line survey and feasibility studies in the area of operation (district, sub-district or a group of districts) to determine the status of crop production, its potential and demand. Similar studies would also be undertaken for other components of the programmes.

(iii) Implementation of the Mission's activities in the State through FarmersSocieties, Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Growers'

--- Page 103 ---

Associations, Self-Help Groups (SHGs), Farmers Producer Organizations (FPOs), State institutions and other similar entities as per States strategy besides approved agencies of the mission.

(iv) Organize workshops, seminars and training programmes for farmers and other stakeholders at the State level in collaboration with SAUs and ICAR Institutes.

(v) Execution of approved Action Plan for the State from fund received from Government of India and matching State share for National Food Security Mission as per approved provision.

District Level

At the district level, the scheme will be implemented through available staff at district level including the staff of PMT or district Agriculture/Department Horticulture Officers /ATMA for the NFSM-crops. The State Level Agency will provide the required funds at the District Level/Agency through PFMS/State Treasury for execution of the programme at the district/block level. However the account would be maintained at district level.

A District Food Security Mission Executive Committee (DFSMEC) will continue to function during 2018-19 and 2019-20 also for project formulation, implementation and monitoring of the scheme components through the Agriculture Department involving concerned stakeholders i.e. some State implement oil palm programme through horticulture department and therefore, concerned officers would be part of DFSMEC.

DFSMEC has representatives from the line Departments concerned including SAUs, Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), ATMA, progressive farmers, SHGs of farmers and reputed NGOs as its members. The Deputy Director (Agriculture)/District Agriculture Officer is the Member Secretary of the DFSMEC. The DFSMEC will implement programme with respect to integration of extention services for convenience with ATMA without losing focus on NFSM. The constitution of the DFSMEC will be as follows:

--- Page 104 ---

(i)       District Collector/CEO 
         of Zilla Parishad                                         Chairman

(ii)      Representatives from
         line Departments                                       Member

(iii)     Nominated progressive
         farmers                                                            Member

(iv)      Representatives from Self
         Help Groups of farmers                               Member

(v)       Representatives from
         reputed  NGOs                                             Member

(vi)      Representative of KVK /ICAR/
         SAU                                                                Member

(vii)     Project Director ATMA                              Member

(viii)   Representative from Lead Bank and NABARD      Member

(ix)     Deputy Director (Agriculture)/District            
         Agricultural Officer/District Horticulture Officer
                                                                          Member
                                                                          Secretary

Chairman, DFSMEC may nominate additional officials/persons of importance as felt necessary.

Project Management Team

The Project Management Team (PMT) constituted at the National level for food grain crops will continue to function under the leadership of the Mission Director. Advisors/Consultants in identified fields of expertise, Program Manager, Senior Programmers, Technical Assistants, and supporting staff will form part of the national PMT. As regards, Oilseeds/Oil

--- Page 105 ---

Palm/TBOs, it would be managed by the existing Technical Support Group (TSG) at national level through outsourcing agencies. TSG will comprise of Consultants, Technical Assistants, Junior Programmers, Typists and Data Entry Operators.

PMTs constituted at the State and the district levels for food grain crops would continue beyond 12th Plan (2017-18 to 2019-20) also. States with more than 15 districts under NFSM would be eligible for additional one state level Consultant and two Technical Assistants for every additional 15 districts. The states may engage one accountant in place of one TA at State Head Quarter to assist in preparation and maintenance of accounts etc. The districts covered under NFSM will be entitled for one PMT if the area under any one of the NFSM crops is at least 10000 ha. In addition, Crop Development Directorates will be provided with one State level Consultant and two Technical Assistants each. The number of PMTs provided for each state for foodgrains crops is given in Annexure-I (b). In addition, Rs. 2.40 lakh is allowed annually for hiring the vehicle to each District and State PMT for field visits. List of districts having provision of PMT for foodgrain crops is given in Annexure-I(c).

5. Criteria for Identification of Areas and Beneficiaries

In accordance with the decision of the Government of India regarding implementation of Special Component Plan (SCP) for Scheduled Castes and Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) for Scheduled Tribes, 16.6% of the total allocation for SCP and 8.6% for TSP will be earmarked. However, States will be allowed to make allocation to SC/ST farmers proportionate to their population in the States/districts. The data on beneficiaries classes will be generated and maintained by the State for reporting at National Level.

At least 33% allocation of the fund is to be made for small and marginal farmers.

At least 30% allocation of the fund is to be made for women farmers.

All the farmers are entitled to avail the assistance for various components of the Mission limited to 5 hectares in a season.

--- Page 106 ---

A district level Seed Committee will be constituted by the Chairman of State Food Security Mission-Executive Committee (SFSM-EC) to verify the list of beneficiaries for seeds, its indent and the ultimate distribution to end users. Incase the subsidy on seed is administered at source, the list of beneficiaries may be approved post-facto subject to random verification.

Zonal research stations of SAUs, KVKs, ATMA, reputed NGOs and other line departments will be actively involved in planning and execution of demonstrations, training of farmers and evaluation. The Project Management Team at the district level will help in developing synergy among research institutes and various line departments to get the desired output.

6. Position of Ongoing Schemes

The programmes listed below now stand discontinued and merged with NFSM:

(a) National Mission on Oilseeds and Oilpalm (NMOOP);
(b) Seed Village Programme Component of Sub-Mission on Seed and planting materials; and

7. Nutri-Cereals (Millets) are included in existing NFSM-Coarse Cereals and thus, NFSM-Coarse Cereals is divided into two parts i.e. NFSM-Coarse Cereals(Maize & Barley) and Sub-Mission on Nutri-Cereals.Interventions

Interventions under the four components (Rice, Wheat, Pulses and Coarse Cereals) of NFSM are given below whereas norms of financial assistance are summarized in Annexure-V.

Accelerated Crop Production Programme (ACPP)

Large blocks of crop area will be taken up for demonstration of production and protection technologies in a cropping system based mode. A cafeteria of crop specific interventions (bio-fertilizers, nutrients, plant protection chemicals, weedicides, bee keeping in Arhar, city compost,

--- Page 107 ---

promotion of Arhar on rice bunds, promotion of plantation crops on bunds, etc.) has been illustrated (Annexure-VI) to enable the states to choose interventions relevant to that particular Agro-climatic zone for demonstrations.

Demonstrations

i. Field demonstrations of improved package of practices will be conducted on cropping system as well as on sole crop.

ii. The cropping system based approach, which has been included under NFSM, entails that demonstrations are done in cropping sequence on the same plot of land. States should conduct at least 30% demonstrations under cropping system based approach.

iii. Area of operation: The demonstrations will be conducted in a contiguous block by dividing the fields into two blocks, one for improved practices and the other for farmer's practices in a cluster of 100 ha or more. Size of cluster for hilly States and north-eastern States will be restricted to10 ha. However, the size of compact demonstrations for pulses is proposed to be reduced to 20 ha in those districts where crop area is less than 10000 ha even in general States and non-traditional areas. The lowest productivity areas in selected districts should be given priority. Demonstrations should be evenly distributed within and among selected clusters.

iv. All farmers in a cluster should be included in a demonstration. For each farmer, at least 0.4 ha area will also be included in demonstration.

v. Selection of beneficiary Farmers: Gram Panchayat should be involved in selection of beneficiary farmers. Only the farmers willing to cooperate and contribute some of the resources in addition to incentives for demonstration should be selected. Selection of 106

--- Page 108 ---

beneficiaries should be done adopting participatory approach by holding meetings in the village by explaining the objectives of the demonstrations and role and responsibilities including expectations from the participating farmers. The beneficiaries should also be selected for oilseed & pulses cultivation in the areas where potential of irrigation has been created under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sichayee Yojna (PMKSY).

vi. Selection of Site: Demonstration site should be easily accessible for the farmers and the extension workers. It should not be on an isolated field. The selected site should be the representative of soil type and soil fertility status of the area.

vii. Soil Analysis: As far as possible soil fertility status of the selected field should be known well in advance for deciding the use of fertilizer and soil ameliorants on the basis of soil health cards.

viii. Identification of Technologies to be demonstrated: The improved practices for the demonstration plots should be identified in consultation with SAU/Regional Research Stations/KVKs/ICAR research centres located in the area. However, the most critical inputs should be given top priority. For example correction of soil acidity through liming should be done while conducting a demonstration on improved package on acid soils. The varieties to be included in the package should preferably be new varieties.

ix. Development of package of inputs to be distributed: Once the technologies are identified, a package of inputs including micronutrients and bio-fertilizers should be finalized as to which inputs are to be provided for the conduct of demonstrations. Similarly the inputs to be contributed by the beneficiary farmers (if required) may also be assessed.

107

--- Page 109 ---

x. Distribution of demonstration kits and training of participating farmers: An orientation training programme should be organized to brief the beneficiary farmers about the procedure to be followed for conducting demonstrations. Farmers should be informed about the critical operations for the demonstrations. The demonstration kits may be distributed to the farmers during the training programme. The demonstrations should be conducted by extension functionaries of the State Department of Agriculture under the supervision of District Consultant/District level officers.

xi. Monitoring: District Consultants/Technical Assistants of NFSM should monitor the conduct of demonstrations throughout the cropping season and should report the outcome in prescribed format to the district level PMT senior officers of the Department. The extension functionaries should visit the demonstration plots and arrange need based visits of scientists.

xii. Display Board: The display board should contain information on the critical inputs used and the interventions which are being demonstrated. A display board containing the following information should be installed at the demonstration plot:

a) Number of farmers in cluster
b) Name of Village
c) Name of crop variety/ hybrid
d) Type of demonstration
e) Fertilizers applied
f) Bio-fertilizers applied
g) Micronutrient applied
h) Date of Sowing/Transplanting
i) Seed Rate and Spacing
j) Any other critical input used
k) Mobile number of District Consultant/ Technical Assistant

xiii. State should include more than one improved variety/hybrid in one cluster demonstration.

--- Page 110 ---

xiv. Field day: A field day should be organized during reproductive phase of the crop preferably at grain filling stage. The participation of scientists from SAUs/KVKs should be ensured for critical observations and solutions of problems. Some relevant extension literature like leaflets, pamphlets etc should also be made available to the participating farmers.

xv. Reporting of the Results: The results of the demonstrations should be compiled at block, district and State level. At State level, the results of the demonstrations should be compiled in the form of document. The state should analyze the contribution of various interventions undertaken under cluster demonstrations and up-scaling of particular intervention in succeeding years. Analysis should also have information on farmers practice and effect of demonstration with respect to yield gain and different parameters.

xvi. Front Line Demonstration: Front Line Demonstration (FLD) is a form of adaptive research on the latest notified/released varieties/technologies which is demonstrated by ICAR/SAUs system on the selected farmer’s field. The FLDs for rice, wheat, pulses, coarse cereals and nutri-cereals are the approved components of NFSM for which 5% of the amount of ACFP is available. ICAR/SAUs may indicate the Nodal Institutes for respective crops to coordinate the implementation of FLDs.

Improved Package of Practices - Rice and Rice-based cropping systems

Rice

There will be demonstrations on system of rice intensification, direct seeded rice, hybrid rice technology, stress tolerant varieties and improved package of practices (variety, nutrient management, integrated pest management etc).

Rice-based cropping systems:

The Mission has adopted cropping system-based approach for improving

--- Page 111 ---

productivity of the system followed extensively in a given agro-climatic zone. Therefore, there will be field demonstrations on;
(a) Direct-seeded rice (DSR)-wheat sequence.
(b) Direct-seeded rice-chickpea / oilseeds sequence in rain-fed areas.
(c) Rice-chickpea/ lentil/moong/ urd/ oilseeds sequence in rice-fallow system

Wheat

There will be demonstrations on improved package of practices (variety, resource conservation technology, micronutrients, bio-fertilizers, nutrient management, production and protection technologies etc.) in wheat and wheat based cropping system such as

(a) wheat-summer moong
(b) wheat relay crop with cotton
(c) wheat–kharif pulses
(d) wheat-coarse cereals/nutri-cereals( maize, bajra)

Pulses

Demonstrations will be conducted on pulse-crop-based cropping system and pulses as intercrops with commercial crops (sugarcane, cotton etc.), oilseeds (soybean, groundnut etc.) and coarse cereals. SAU/ICAR/KVKs may be approached for recommended intercropping systems and associated package of practices.

In addition to state government, the KVKs spread throughout the country will also conduct demonstrations on pulses crops.

Coarse Cereals/Nutri-Cereals

Demonstrations will be on coarse cereals/ nutri-cereals crops and coarse cereal based cropping- systems. The crops involved are maize, sorghum, barley, pearl millet, finger millet and small millets (Kodo, Barnyard, Foxtail, Proso and Little millet (Kutki). Intercropping systems such as maize + urd/ moong/ pigeonpea, sorghum + kharif pulses, pearl millet + urd/ moong/ pigeonpea/ mothbean/ any other pulse should be selected depending on the area.

--- Page 112 ---

Cost Norms of Demonstration

The incentives of demonstration for one ha area for sole crop (excluding coarse cereals) will Rs 9000/- and Rs. 15000/-for a cropping sequence. For coarse cereals, the incentive of demonstration for one ha area will be Rs. 6000/-. The incentives of demonstration includes organization of field day, distribution of publicity material and monitoring visit of scientists/GOI/State/officials @Rs. 250, Rs. 250 and Rs. 300, respectively. Illustrative lists of interventions that can be taken up within the amount fixed for demonstrations are given in Annexure-V. In the annual Action Plan, State Government will clearly specify the interventions proposed to be demonstrated. The interventions selected should be based on the recommendations made by SAU/Zonal Research Station for the Agro-climatic Zone concerned. Beneficiary farmers should be asked to arrange recommended quantity of chemical fertilizers. Additional cost, if any should be borne by the farmer. For an individual farmer, the area under demonstration should not exceed 2 ha.

The State/district PMTs constituted will continue to function under the leadership of the State Mission Director/Deputy Director of Agriculture/District Agriculture Officer. The State/district Consultants and Technical Assistants would be members of the PMT. The PMTs will have the responsibility to ensure collaboration among various line departments in the Centre / State /District to achieve the targets. The appointment of technical manpower will be made on contract basis with the terms of reference laid down for the purpose by NFSMEC. The PMT will provide the technical services/advice. Basic qualifications and experience for the candidates of PMTs along with honorarium to be appointed on contractual services are given at Annexure-I(a). Duties of Consultants and Technical Assistants are given in Annexure-I (d).

The Project Management Team will have the following responsibilities:

a. Guide the States/districts in organizational and technical matters.

--- Page 113 ---

b. Help in the implementation and monitoring of the various interventions of the Mission.
c. Assist the States/districts in capacity building programmes and record the data on crop yield through crop cutting experiments.
d. Assist the district and State agencies in concurrent evaluation based on case studies in identified districts and document and disseminate the success stories.
e. Undertake publicity/ information campaign to create awareness about the Mission activities.

ICAR institutes, SAUs and KVKs functioning in the district will provide technical support in formulation of district action plans, its implementation and monitoring. The technical staff will be sourced from these organizations for imparting training to the farmers and extension personnel.

8. Role of Panchayati Raj Institutions

Panchayati Raj Institutions will be actively involved in selection of beneficiary and selection of interventions under Local Initiatives in the identified districts.

A model activity map is given at Annexure-I(e). The States will prepare Activity Map suitable to their local conditions.

9. Area of Operation of Food Security Mission

NFSM-Rice, NFSM-Wheat and NFSM-Pulses will be implemented in 194, 126 and 638 identified districts of different states, respectively. Now, NFSM-Coarse Cereals will be divided into two parts i.e. NFSM-Coarse Cereals (Maize & Barley) and Sub Mission on Nutri-Cereals. NFSM-Coarse Cereals (Maize & Barley) will be implemented in 271 districts of 27 States and Sub Mission on Nutri-Cereals will be implemented in 202 districts of 14 States, 8 North Eastern States and 2 Hilly States where Millets are grown by the farmers and identified the areas/districts by the States. List of the State-wise identified districts is given at Annexure-II (a) to II (d).

Criteria for selection of districts:

--- Page 114 ---

(a) Districts with area more than 50,000 ha and yield below State average yield under NFSM-rice and NFSM-wheat have been selected.
(b) All districts of 16 states included earlier under pulses during 11th Five Years Plan have been selected. All districts of North Eastern States including Sikkim have been included.
(c) In case of coarse cereals (Maize and Barley), the districts covering 70 % of the total coarse cereals area of the state have been selected.
(d) All districts of north-eastern states (except Assam) with at least 5000 ha area under rice have been selected.
(e) Districts with at least 15000 ha area under rice or wheat in hill states of Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand have been selected.
(f) The programme would be implemented in LWE districts covered under NFSM.

The General Council (GC) is empowered to include or exclude the districts for implementation of various components of the Mission based on the latest available data of area, production and yield of the component crops.

10. Mechanism of Fund Flow

Funds for implementing the Mission’s programme will be released to the State governments with the approval of the NFSMEC. The State Governments will release the funds to the State Level Agency through PFMS/Treasury. The State Level Agency would make funds available to the District Level Agency in accordance with approved programme of the district. District level agency would release the fund to the Implementing Agency/beneficiary.

The release of Central Share to the States would be in two installments- The first instalment during the months of April-June, subject to the approval of the State Annual Action Plan and the terms and conditions stipulated from time to time; The second instalment during the months of

--- Page 115 ---

October-December on the request of State Govt. and on fulfilment of the following conditions: Utilization of at least 60% of the available funds including the opening balance, State Government’s contribution during the previous year released (in case of deficiency therein, Central Share would be reduced proportionately); The opening balance of the State should not exceed 10% of the allocation of the previous year (in case, the opening balance exceeds this limit, the Central share would be proportionally reduced); Audit Reports and Audited Statement of Accounts, Utilization Certificates for the previous year furnished; Physical and Financial Achievement with reference to Annual Action; and Other terms and conditions stipulated at the time of the previous release should have been met.

The funds for the implementation of the activities of NFSM components will be released by the State/District Level Agency to the nodal departments for the procurement of required inputs. The nodal departments will submit the utilization certificate to the State/District Level Agency which, will be compiled and a consolidated utilization certificate, duly authenticated by the District Food Security Mission Executive Committee (DFSMEC) and State Food Security Mission Executive Committee (SFSMEC) will be submitted to the Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of Indiafor further release of fund.

As far as possible PFMS/Treasury will be used for transfer of funds to the State Level Agency and further to the districts. The State Level Agency will have to maintain a separate budget for Central Share and matching State share in prescribed accounting system for the Mission, both at the State and district level.

The Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) would be implemented to transfer the funds for specified interventions of NFSM to identified beneficiaries as per the guidelines issued and revised from time to time. The States/Implementing agencies would transfer the benefit to the targeted beneficiaries through DBT by using Aadhar etc. The details of data bank related to beneficiaries would be up loaded on MIS of NFSM by the States/Implementing Agencies.

114

--- Page 116 ---

The present financing restructured in the year 2015-16 as 60:40 between Central and General States and 90:10 between Central and NE States and 3 Himalayan Hill States, would continue.

11. Procedure for Approval and Implementation

The Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Government of India would communicate component-wise tentative annual outlay to each State for developing Annual Action Plan. The agency (DFSM-EC) at the district level will prepare the annual action plan keeping in view their priority and potential and submit the plan to the State Mission Director. The State Mission Director will prepare a State Action Plan based on the District Action Plans. The State Mission Director will get the State Action Plan vetted by the State Food Security Mission-Executive Committee (SFSM-EC) and furnish the same in Prescribed format (Annexures III (a) to III (d) to Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare for consideration by the National Food Security Mission Executive Committee (NFSM-EC). Along with Annual Action Plan, State would also submit a brief report on implementation of NFSM in preceding year, interventions undertaken, salient outcomes, lessons learnt, success stories etc.

State Food Security Mission-Executive Committee (SFSM-EC) is empowered to make interventional changes in budgetary allocation based on the local needs to the extent of 20% of the total allocation; provided the proportion of funds approved for various components does not change as per guidelines.

12. Monitoring mechanism

The Mission will have a strong mechanism of monitoring and evaluation with the involvement of all the implementing agencies and the line departments. At the district level, monitoring will be undertaken by DFSM-EC supported by the Project Management Team.

115

--- Page 117 ---

Close monitoring of physical and financial targets of various program interventions would be done by the monitoring teams. Format for monitoring these interventions would be prescribed by NFSM-EC.

The State Department of Economics and Statistics will be involved in adopting the prescribed format for data collection pertaining to different parameters of the Mission for monitoring to suit the local requirements.

At the State level, the activities of the Mission will be monitored by a Committee to be constituted under the Chairmanship of the State Mission Director with members from the line departments, SAUs, Lead Bank, NABARD, KVKs/ICAR institutes and Crop Development Directorates of DAC&FW.

At the National level, the activities of the Mission will be monitored by a Committee to be constituted under the Chairmanship of the Mission Director with members from DAC&FW, ICAR, SAUs, CDDs, Research Institutions concerned and officials of State Departments concerned. The eight Crop Development Directorates will be involved in monitoring of the Mission activities in States assigned to them.

The National Level Monitoring Teams (NLMTs) would be constituted for each state for monitoring the activities of the Mission.

13. Reporting System

The State Department of Agriculture will ensure submission of Monthly/Quarterly Progress Reports (MPRs/QPRs) which should reach by the 5th of the month following each month/quarter. Similarly, the detailed Annual Progress Report (APR) should be sent to the National Mission Director, within three months after the end of the year; in prescribed format (Annexure-IV (a) to IV (d). One copy of the quarterly/annual report of NFSM-Rice should be sent to the Directorate for Rice Development, Patna, NFSM-Wheat to the Directorate of Wheat Development, Ghaziabad, NFSM-Pulses to the Directorate of Pulses Development, Bhopal and NFSM-Coarse Cereals (Maize & Barley) to Directorate of Millets Development,

--- Page 118 ---

Jaipur. The formats for reporting would be as prescribed by the NFSMEC. State may submit the monthly/QPR indicating targets & achievements (physical & financial) for the Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP), Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) and women beneficiaries & also in final report.

14. Evaluation
A baseline survey will be conducted by the State Department of Agriculture/ State Department of Economics & Statistics to know the resource endowments of the farmers and the level of crop productivity.

Concurrent Evaluation will be done every year. The State Department of Agriculture/ Department of Economics and Statistics/SAU would be responsible for conducting this evaluation to assess the performance of the Mission commensurate with annual action plan and its objectives.
Impact Evaluation Study/Studies at the National Level will also be undertaken through an independent agency during the third year of implementation to assess the impact of the scheme in increasing the productivity of rice, wheat, pulses and coarse cereals and enhancement of farmers' income. The States implementing agencies will provide adequate support to the agencies selected for evaluation and the recommendation of Mission Director.

Information Communication Technology (ICT) will be used for reporting, monitoring and evaluation of the Mission. Specialized software for the reporting, monitoring and evaluation of the Mission's activities already exists reflecting the details of benefit extended to individual beneficiaries through DBT.

S.No.	Contents	Page No.
Part –IV National Food Security Mission (NFSM) Seed Village Programme
1	Seed Village Programme	238
XXIX	Details of Crop-wise maximum subsidy available/allowed for Seed Village Programme under Sub-Mission on Seeds & Planting	239

--- Page 119 ---

Material (SMSP)

XXX The pattern of assistance available for Seed Village Programme under Sub-Mission on Seeds & Planting Material (SMSP) 240

Research Support:
In order to facilitate the conduct of strategic adaptive research, address various research issues and gaps of potential yield and yield realized at farmers’ field of food crops, research projects supported and approved during the 12th Plan will be continued upto 2019-20. SAUs, National and International research organizations may be supported for research proposals and themes are given below.
(i) Conservation of natural resources (land, water) and their efficient use.
(ii) Integrated nutrient management.
(iii) Integrated disease and pest management.
(iv) Modification/refinements in farm machines/tools for various soilstypes/cropping systems.
(v) Upscaling of improved crop varieties/hybrids in NFSM adopted states/agro-climatic zones under water/thermal stress conditions.
(vi) Nutrient management in acidic/alkaline/sodic soils.
(vii) Crop-husbandry.
(viii) Input use efficiency.
(ix) Rain-water management in kharif pulses.
(x) Refinement of relay cropping systems.
(xi) Agronomic practices for intercropping systems involving pulses.
(xii) Quality seed storages in the humid and hot climatic conditions-coastalareas.
(xiii) Value addition in case of millets, nutri cereals and pulses
(xiv) Precision farming -nutrient manager and crop manager
(xv) Any other innovative approach for enhancement of crop productivity.

118

--- Page 120 ---

Training of extension functionaries: In order to propagate latest crop specific technologies amongst Central and State functionaries who are involved in implementation of NFSM programme, the State Agricultural Universities( SAUs), National and International research organizations would be assisted to organise crop specific trainings within the country.

Other Initiatives

Specialized projects for high productivity areas: For sustainability of the high productivity areas, special projects such as reclamation of problematic soils, development of water-logged areas and mitigation of adverse effect of climate change would be funded under the Mission for the promotion of NFSM crops of the district. States may submit project proposals relating to these areas provided that these areas are not covered under regular development schemes. The proposals vetted by the SFSMEC would be accorded approval by NFSMEC on case to case basis. The unit cost of these project proposals would be limited to Rs.50,000 per ha including farmers share of 25%. The total cost of each project proposal should not exceed Rs.10 crore and the project proposal should be for areas covered under NFSM. The suggestive interventions for the development of such area as:
a. Reclamation of problematic soils:
i) The surveys and project preparation;
ii) Land development activities;
iii) Rate of application of amendments and cost (gypsum, phospho-gypsum, pyrites etc) based on severity of alkalinity/salinity etc;
iv) Crops tolerant to alkalinity/salinity/acidity etc. adapting the reclamation packages etc. The reclaimed soil will be used for NFSM-Crops like Rice, Wheat, Pulses, Coarse cereals, Nutri-Cereals, Oilseeds & Cotton etc.
b. Development of water-logged areas: i) The surveys for the project preparation;
ii) Construction of field/community ditches linking to natural drains or pumping of the excess water to a natural drainage lines and related

--- Page 121 ---

activities;  
iii) Evaluation of crops tolerant to water-logging etc.

c. Projects to combat the effect of climate change: The projects aimed at mitigating adverse effect of climate change in high productivity areas would qualify for the financial support. The demonstration of heat tolerant varieties, promotion of micro-irrigation system (drip and sprinkler) for protective irrigation etc. would be focused. The agro-forestry components may also conveyed to create sink for carbon sequestration.

(i) Support to institutes/organizations including NGOs in remote areas: It is experienced that reaching out to farmers in remote areas is difficult due to poor accessibility. These regions are mostly rainfed and inhabited by tribal and poor farmers. States may identify such areas requiring special efforts for raising productivity of food grain crops. Suitable institutes/organizations including NGOs may be entrusted to undertake clusters demonstrations in these areas. The cost norms for demonstrations specified in Annexure-V will be followed. In addition, 10% of cost of demonstration may be paid as institutional charge. State/district authorities will monitor the work done. Suitable institutes/organizations including NGOs will be identified at district level for this purpose based on the criteria suggested below:

(a) At least 3 years’ experience of successful execution of agriculture/rural development projects in remote/backward areas.
(b) Should have accounts audited for all programmes implemented during past three years and not declared black listed in past by Central/State/Districts authorities.

(ii) Value Chain integration of small producers: Majority of the farmers are small producers who face difficulties in managing high risk

--- Page 122 ---

involved in farming mainly due to weather aberrations, uneven access to technologies, unreliable input supplies, erratic power supply, inadequate marketing arrangements etc. Forming and strengthening of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) is likely to mitigate at least some of the risks and constraints faced by the farmers. The formation of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) may offer a collective strength for seed production and seed procurement, access to credit and improved technologies, reduce transaction costs, facilitate value addition, tap high value markets etc and enter into partnerships with private entities on more equitable terms. Small Farmers’ Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC) has already demonstrated the benefits of aggregating farmers into FPOs during the XII Plan.

State Governments will be required to submit their action plans for FPO promotion, to be undertaken through SFAC or similar organisations, along with their annual action plans. Assistance for FPO promotion will be available for a maximum period of three years as per the FPO Process Guidelines of DAC & FW. The Action Plans must specify the commodity, target area and target producers, besides the manner in which value addition will be undertaken during the promotion of FPOs. The Action Plan should broadly be divided into four areas viz. (i) Mobilization, training, exposure and capacity building interventions (ii) agriculture based livelihood interventions such as trial and demonstration of Good Agriculture Practices (replacement of varieties, pre-and Post-sowing practices, seed production and dissemination, INM, IPM, etc.) (iii) formation and development of Kissan Producer Company or other institutional form, which will include awareness building, federating, drafting constitution, registration of the company, develop and establish system and procedures related to administration, accounts, HR, develop business plan and implementation, statutory compliance , etc. and (iv) linkage to value chain (marketing). SFAC will assist the State Governments in drawing up action plans, if required. State Governments will also have the flexibility to undertake FPO promotion

--- Page 123 ---

through any other Central, State, Civil Society or private in the process Guidelines for FPOs referred to above; will be followed in such sector entity of their choice. A copy of the FPO Process Guidelines is available on the DAC & FW and SFAC web sites. The component wise financial provisions for one FPO of 1000 farmers under Value Chain Integration of Small and Marginal farmers is given at Annexure-VIII.

(iii) Assistance to Custom Hiring Centres: For small land holders, the farm mechanization by individual farm families is economically not viable. Therefore, such farm holders utilize the services of Custom Hiring Centres for the various farm operations. Also, under special cases, community operations of selected farm activities are required to be undertaken within a time frame. In view of this, provision has been made to subsidize cost of hiring machines for farming operations at individual farmer/community level. The machines can be hired from existing Custom Hiring Centres and/or Custom Hiring Centres to be established under the National Mission on Agricultural Mechanization. The State Governments may submit proposals with subsidy for hiring machines for farm operations not exceeding Rs. 1500/- per hectare. The proposals submitted by the States would be approved by the NFSMEC.

(iv) Marketing support for nutri cereals, millets and pulses: For promoting the production of pulses and millets, it is proposed that marketing support would be provided to growers in form of insurance cover for machines, Dal mill and millet/nutri cereals processing unit to individual/communities, incentives to processing agencies etc. Assistance will be limited to 50% of the cost of the items. Funds will be allocated to SFAC and similar organizations at Centre/State level against specific proposals approved by NFSM-EC. The support for value addition and marketing in pulses and millets is given Annexure-VIII will cover the following areas:-

1. Establishment of mini dal mills by farmers, farmer groups or registered FPOs (@ Rs. 10.00 lakhs, or 30% of the total cost,

--- Page 124 ---

whichever is lower, as one time support)

2. Support for branding and marketing of milled pulses or millets (available only to registered FPOs @ Rs.5.00 lakh per FPO, for one time support only)

3. Marketing support to un-registered farmer groups, SHGs, SHG federation etc. for local marketing of pulses and millets (@Rs.2.00 lakh per group of 15 farmers, for one time support only).

4. Support to registered FPOs to set up and equip procurement centres to grade and process pulses and millets (@Rs.5.00 lakh per FPO for one time support only)

5. Proposals for marketing support to individual farmers, informal farmer groups, SHGs / SHG federations and registered FPOs must form part of the annual Action Plan of the States.

Exposure visit to International Organizations

i. In order to enrich the knowledge base of the technical personnel involved in the Mission, exposure visit/training of technical officers/staff at international organizations like IRRI, CYMMIT, ICRISAT, AVRDC, ICARDA or any other research organization in crop production technologies etc. would be organized.

Awards

The national level Krishi Karman Awards consisting 8 awards including three for the States with highest foodgrains production in three identified categories (Category I – where production is > 10 million tonnes during the particular year, Category II – where production is between 1-10 million tonnes during the particular year, and Category III – where production is <1 million tonnes) during the particular year and five awards for highest production under each of the individual crops of Rice, Wheat, Pulses, Coarse Cereals and Oilseeds. Agriculture Minister’s Krishi Karman Awards for progressive farmers will be given to selected farmers (One male and one female) from the

--- Page 125 ---

awardee states. Similarly, State level Krishi Karman Awards are proposed to all individual NFSM Crops by implementing states for the selected districts adapting guidelines of National Krishi Karman Award or modified guidelines as per their local needs. This may be organized either on 26th January or 2nd October.

Miscellaneous Expenses:

Financial assistance would be provided at district, state and national levels to improve mobility of staff, meet office expenses including stationery and other miscellaneous expenditure. At district level, the assistance of Rs. 2.40 lakh per year for hiring the vehicle, Rs. 0.50 lakh per year for stationery would be provided. An assistance of Rs.1.00 lakh as one time grant for computer and its accessories to new districts or those districts which did not avail this grant earlier would be provided.

At state level, the assistance of Rs. 2.40 lakh per year for hiring the vehicle, Rs. 1.0 lakh per year for stationery and other contingencies (for every 15 districts). However, such support will not include any expenditure for recurring expenses like pay and allowances to the staff of the State Government.

124

--- Page 126 ---

Annexure-I (a)

BASIC QUALIFICATION, EXPERIENCE AND HONORARIUM OFADVISORS/CONSULTANTS/TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS

Level and post

Educational Qualification & experience

Honorarium (Rs./ Month)

Conveyance /Travelling Allowance (Rs./ Month)

Daily Allowance (Rs./Day)

A. District level:

Consultants
1. Bachelor degree in Agriculture with Masters Degree in Agronomy/Agri. Extension/Soil Science/Plant Protection/ or any other agricultural subject, having atleast 10 may be relaxed by the SFSMEC.
2. The person should have the ability of team leadership & motivation.

45,000

2,000

200 (for 10 days in a month) or as per state rules

Technical Assistants
1. Bachelor degree in agriculture with computer skills. In case of non-availability of agriculture

30,000

1500

150 (for 10 days in a month) or as per

--- Page 127 ---

graduates, candidates with Bachelor degree in sciences may be considered.
state rules
2. Person with experience of research and extension will be given preference.
B. State Level
Consultants 1. Doctorate Degree in Agronomy/Agriculture Extension/Soil Science/Plant Breeding/Plant Protection/Agriculrural Engineering/or the SFSM-EC.
65,000
3,000
200 (for 10 days in a month) or as per state rules
126

--- Page 128 ---

2. Ability to analyze data and preparation of projects, writing reports/seminar notes/articles as evidenced by publication in national and international journals. 

3. The person should have the ability of team leadership & motivation. 

Technical Assistants

1. Master degree in Agriculture with specialization in management of field crops. Knowledge of computer. 

2. Person with experience of research and extension will be given preference.

40,000
2,500
150 (for 10 days in a month) or as per state rules

C. National Level 

National Consultants (3)

1. Doctorate Degree in Agronomy/Agriculture Extension/Soil Science/Plant Breeding/Crop Improvement/Plant Protection / or any other agricultural subject or M.Tech in Agricultural Engineering having at least 15 years of field

85,000
4,000
TA and other items as per GoI rules (Equates to Grade “A” Gazetted Officer) 

--- Page 129 ---

experience in crop production/ mechanization. In case of departmental candidate having experience in the relevant field with atleast 5 years as Deputy Commissioner or above.

2. Ability to analyze data and preparation of projects, writing reports/semi nar notes/articles as evidenced by publication in national and international journals.

3. The person should have the ability of team leadership & motivation.
4. Maximum Age Limit 65 year or as per instruction of the Department. Suitable candidates beyond 65 years of age will also be considered with approval of NFSM-GC.

--- Page 130 ---

Consultant (4)

1. Master Degree in Agronomy/Agriculture Extension/Soil Science/Plant Breeding/Crop Improvement/Plant Protection / or any other agricultural subject /or M.Tech in Agricultural Engineering or other discipline of agricultural sciences having at least 8 years of field experience in crop production/ mechanization or working as Technical Assistants at National Level and State / District Consultant. Doctorate Degree holders in the field of Agricultural Sciences may be given preference.

2. Ability to analyze data and preparation of projects, writing reports/seminar notes/articles as evidenced by publication in national and international journals.

3. The person should have the ability of team leadership &

65,000

3,000

As per Gol rules

(Equates to Grade “B” Gazetted Officer)

--- Page 131 ---

motivation. 

Programme Manager (1) 

1. At least 15 years experience of working in administration and finance out of which at least 5 years as Deputy Secretary or above 
2. Working knowledge of Computer Application. 

85,000 

4,000 

As per GoI rules (Equates to Grade “A” Gazetted Officer)

Lead Programmer (1) 

Master in Computer Application (MCA) from recognized university/ institutes with 8 years experience in Govt project in Asp.Net and Sql Server 

65,000 

As per GoI rules (Equates to Grade “B” Officer) 

Senior Programmer (1) 

Master in Computer Application (MCA) from recognized university/ institutes with 4 years experience in Govt project in Asp.Net and Sql Server 

55,000 

As per GoI rules (Equates to Grade “B” Officer) 

130

--- Page 132 ---

Programmer (1)
Master in Computer Application (MCA) from recognized university/institutes with 2 years’ experience preferably in Govt project in Asp.Net and Sql Server
40,000
As per GoI rules (Equates to Grade “B” Officer)

Technical Assistants (13)
1. Master degree in Agronomy/Soil science/Agriculture Extension/Plant breeding/ or any other agricultural subject with specialization in management of field crops. Knowledge of computer essential. The criteria of essential qualification may be relaxed to Departmental experienced personnels in the relevant field.
2. Person with experience of research and extension will be given preference.
45,000
2,500
As per GoI rules (Equates to Grade “B” Official)

Part time need based Consultants (Total 40 men months)
1. Doctorate Degree in Agronomy/Agriculture Extension/Soil Science/Plant Breeding/Crop Improvement/Plant Protection or M. Tech in Agricultural Engineering having at least 15 years of field experience in crop
1,00,000
Nil
As per GoI rules (Equates to JS level)

--- Page 133 ---

production/Crop Improvement/ natural resource management or 5 years experience in the rank of Additional Commissioner in Government of India.

2. Ability to analyze data and preparation of projects, writing reports/seminar notes/articles as evidenced by publication in national and international journals.

3. The person should have the ability of team leadership & motivation.

Accountant (2) 1. Individual having Bachelor degree in Commerce and knowledge in the field of accounts and professional degree in commerce/accounts or working experience in accounts or retired government officials as accountant.

30,000

1500

As per GOI rules (Equates to Grade “C” Officer)

132

--- Page 134 ---

Stenographer (6)/ Data Entry Operator (5)  
1. Graduate with six month computer course.  
2. Minimum 1 year experience in relevant field of work.  

25,000  
1000  
As per GOI rules (Equates to Grade ‘‘C’’ Officer)

Attendant /Peon (6)  
1. Matriculate  

21,000  
1000  
As per GOI rules (Equates to Grade ‘‘D’’ Officer)

133

--- Page 135 ---

Annexure-I(b)

Crop wise Number of District, Number of States and District PMT in NFSM

Sl. States	Number of NFSM Districts	State PMTs	District
States	Rice	Wheat	Pulses	Coarse Cereals (Maize & Barley)	Nutri-Cereals	Consultants	T A	PMTs
1	Andhra Pradesh	5		13	5	7	1	2	13
2	Arunachal Pradesh		10	17	17		1	2	0
3	Assam	13		27	4		1	2	14
4	Bihar	15	10	38	11		2	4	29
5	Chhattisgarh	13		27	8	10	1	2	17
6	Gujarat		2	5	26	3	19	2	4	25
7	Goa							1	2	
8	Haryana		7	21	6	9	1	2	10
9	Himachal Pradesh		2	11	12	12	1	2	9
10	Jammu & Kashmir		8	8	22	22		1	2	11
11	Jharkhand	4		24	12		1	2	20
12	Karnataka	7	30	9	25		2	4	27
13	Kerala	1		14			1	2	1
14	Madhya Pradesh	8	16	51*	22	24	3	6	50
15	Maharashtra	8	3	33	7	26	2	4	31
16	Manipur	9		9	9		1	2	0
17	Meghalaya	7		11	11		1	2	0
18	Mizoram	6		8	8		1	2	0
19	Nagaland	11		11	11		1	2	0
20	Odisha	8		30	8	6	2	4	30
21	Punjab		12	22	3		1	2	11
22	Rajasthan		14	33	11	23	2	4	29
23	Sikkim	2		4	4		1	2	0
24	Tamil Nadu	8		30	9	15	2	4	24
25	Tripura	8		8	8		1	2	0
26.	Telangana	4		9	4	4	1	2	9
27	Uttar Pradesh	23	31	75*	30	24	4	8	65
28	Uttarakhand	5	9	13	13	9	1	2	9
29	West Bengal	7		18	4	1	1	2	12
Commodity Directorates								8	16	
Total States	25	11	29	27	14				
Total Districts	194	126	638	271	202	49	98	446

134

--- Page 136 ---

Annexure-I(c)

Names of PMT Districts (446) State 
PMT (49)

1. Andhra Pradesh (13) 
1 Anantapur 
2 Chittoor 
3 Cuddapah 
4 East Godavari 
5 Guntur 
6 Krishna 
7 Kurnool 
8 Nellore 
9 Prakasam 
10 Srikakulam 
11 Vishakhapatnam 
12 Viziangram 
13 West Godawari 

2. Assam (14) 
1 Barpeta 
2 Baska 
3 Bongaigaon 
4 Chirang 
5 Dhemaji 
6 Dibrugarh 
7 Jorhat 
8 Karbi Anglong 
9 Kokrajhar 
10 Lakhimpur 
11 Marigaon 
12 Sonitpur 
13 Tinsukia 
14 Udalguri 

3. Bihar (29) 
1 Araria 
2 Aurangabad 
3 Begusarai 
4 Bhagalpur 
5 Bhojpur 
6 Darbhanga 
7 Gaya 
8 Gopalganj 
9 Kaimur (Bhabhua) 
10 Katihar 
11 Khagaria 
12 Kishanganj 
13 Lakhisarai 
14 Madhepura 
15 Madhubani 
16 Muzaffarpur 
17 Nalanda 
18 Pashchim Champaran 
19 Patna 
20 Purbi Champaran 
21 Purnia 
22 Rohtas 
23 Saharsa 
24 Samastipur 
25 Saran 
26 Sitamarhi 
27 Siwan 
28 Supaul 
29 Vaishali 

4. Chhattisgarh (17) 
1 Bastar 
2 Bijapur 
3 Bilaspur 
4 Dantewada 
5 Dhamtari 
6 Durg 
7 Janjgir-Champa 
10 Kawardha 
11 Korba 
12 Koriya 
13 Mahasamand 
14 Raigarh 
15 Raipur 
16 Rajnandgaon

--- Page 137 ---

8 Jashpur (Jagdalpur) 17 Sarguja
9 Kanker (North Bastar)

5. Gujarat (25)

1 Ahmadabad 14 Narmada
2 Amreli 15 Navsari
3 Anand 16 Panch Mahals
4 Banas Kantha 17 Patan
5 Bharuch 18 Porbandar
6 Dang 19 Rajkot
7 Dohad 20 Sabar Kantha
8 Gandhinagar 21 Surat
9 Jamnagar 22 Surendranagar
10 Junagadh 23 Tapi
11 Kheda 24 Vadodara
12 Kutch 25 Valsad
13 Mahesana

6. Haryana (10)

1 Ambala 6 Mahendragarh
2 Bhiwani 7 Mewat
3 Hisar 8 Palwal
4 Jhajjar 9 Rewari
5 Jind 10 Rohtak

7. Himachal Pradesh (9)

1 Bilaspur 6 Mandi
2 Chamba 7 Sirmaur
3 Hamirpur 8 Solan
4 Kangra 9 Una
5 Kulu

8. Jammu & Kashmir (11)

1 Anantnagh 7 Kupwara
2 Baramulla 8 Poonch
3 Budgam 9 Pulwanna
4 Doda 10 Rajouri
5 Jammu 11 Udhampur
6 Kathua

9. Jharkhand (20)

1 Chatra 11 Latehar
2 Dumka 12 Lohardaga
3 Deogarh 13 Pakur
4 Garhwa 14 Palamu
5 Giridih 15 Ranchi
6 Godda 16 Sahebganj
7 Gumla 17 Saraikela Kharsawan
8 Hazaribagh 18 Simdega

--- Page 138 ---

9	Khunti	19	Singhbhum (East)
10	Kodermo	20	West Singhbhum

137

--- Page 139 ---

10. Karnataka (27)
1 Bagalkot
2 Belgaum
3 Bellary
4 Bidar
5 Bijapur
6 Chamarajanagar
7 Chikkaballapur
8 Chikmagalur
9 Chitradurga
10 Dakshin Kannada
11 Davangere
12 Dharwad
13 Gadag
14 Gulbarga
15 Hassan
16 Haveri
17 Kolar
18 Koppal
19 Mandya
20 Mysore
21 Raichur
22 Ramanagaram
23 Shimoga
24 Tumkur
25 Udupi
26 Uttar Kannad
27 Yadgir

11. Kerala (1)
1 Palakkad

12. Madhya Pradesh (50)
1 Agar
2 Alirajpur
3 Anuppur
4 Ashoknagar
5 Balaghat
6 Barwani
7 Betul
8 Bhind
9 Bhopal
10 Chhatarpur
11 Chhindwara
12 Damoh
13 Datia
14 Dewas
15 Dhar
16 Dindori
17 East Nimar (Khandwa)
18 Guna
19 Gwalior
20 Harda
21 Hoshangabad
22 Indore
23 Jabalpur
24 Jhabua
25 Mandla
26 Mandsaur
27 Morena
28 Narsinghpur
29 Neemuch
30 Panna
31 Raisen
32 Rajgarh
33 Ratlam
34 Rewa
35 Sagar
36 Satna
37 Sehore
38 Seoni
39 Shahdol
40 Shajapur
41 Sheopur
42 Shivpuri
43 Sidhi
44 Singrauli
45 Tikamgarh
46 Ujjain
47 Umaria
48 Vidisha

--- Page 140 ---

25 Katni 50 West Nimar (Khargon)
139

--- Page 141 ---

13. Maharashtra (31)  
1 Ahmednagar  
2 Akola  
3 Amravati  
4 Aurangabad  
5 Beed  
6 Bhandara  
7 Buldhana  
8 Chandrapur  
9 Dhule  
10 Gadchiroli  
11 Gondia  
12 Hingoli  
13 Jalgaon  
14 Jalna  
15 Kolhapur  
16 Latur  
17 Nagpur  
18 Nanded  
19 Nandurbar  
20 Nasik  
21 Osmanabad  
22 Parbhani  
23 Pune  
24 Raigad  
25 Sangli  
26 Satara  
27 Solapur  
28 Thane  
29 Wardha  
30 Washim  
31 Yavatmal  

14. Odisha (30)  
1 Anugul  
2 Baleshwar (Balasore)  
3 Baragarh  
4 Bhadrak  
5 Bolangir  
6 Boudha  
7 Cuttack  
8 Deogarh  
9 Dhenkanal  
10 Gajapati  
11 Ganjam  
12 Jagatsinghapur  
13 Jajpur  
14 Jharsuguda  
15 Kalahandi  
16 Kendrapara  
17 Keonjhar  
18 Khurdha  
19 Koraput  
20 Malkangiri  
21 Mayurbhanj  
22 Nawapara  
23 Nawrangpur  
24 Nayagarh  
25 Phulbani  
26 Puri  
27 Rayagada  
28 Sambalpur  
29 Sonepur  
30 Sundargarh  

15. Punjab (11)  
1 Amritsar  
2 Bathinda  
3 Firozepur  
4 Gurdaspur  
5 Hoshiarpur  
6 Jalandhar  
7 Kapurthala  
8 Mohali (Ajitgarh)  
9 Nawanshahr  
10 Rupnagar  
11 Taran Taran  

16. Rajasthan (29)  
1 Ajmer  
2 Alwar  
3 Banswara  
4 Baran  
16 Jalore  
17 Jhalawar  
18 Jhunjhunu  
19 Jodhpur  
140  

--- Page 142 ---

5 Barmer 20 Karauli
6 Bhilwara 21 Kota
7 Bikaner 22 Nagaur
8 Bundi 23 Pali
9 Chittorgarh 24 Pratapgarh
10 Churu 25 Sawai Madhopur
11 Dungarpur 26 Sikar
12 Ganganagar 27 Sirohi
13 Hanumangarh 28 Tonk
14 Jaipur 29 Udaipur
15 Jaisalmer

17. Tamil Nadu (24)
1 Coimbatore 13 Sivaganga
2 Cuddalore 14 Thanjavur
3 Dharmapuri 15 Theni
4 Dindigul 16 Thiruvarur
5 Krishnagiri 17 Thoothukudi
6 Madurai 18 Tiruchirappalli
7 Nagapattinam 19 Tirunelveli
8 Namakkal 20 Tiruppur
9 Perambalur 21 Tiruvannamalai
10 Pudukkottai 22 Vellore
11 Ramanathapuram 23 Villupuram
12 Salem 24 Virudhunagar

18. Telegana (09)
1 Adilabad 6 Nalgonda
2 Karimnagar 7 Nizamabad
3 Khammam 8 Rangareddy
4 Mahboobnagar 9 Warangal
5 Medak

19. Uttar Pradesh (65)
1 Agra 34 Jhansi
2 Aligarh 35 Kannauj
3 Allahabad 36 Kanpur Dehat
4 Ambedkar Nagar 37 Kanpur Nagar
5 Auraiya 38 Kashiram Nagar
6 Azamgarh 39 Kaushambi
7 Badaun 40 Kheri
8 Ballia 41 Kushi Nagar
9 Balrampur 42 Lalitpur
10 Banda 43 Lucknow
11 Barabanki 44 Mahamaya Nagar (Hathras)
12 Bareilly 45 Mahoba
13 Basti 46 Maharajagana

--- Page 143 ---

14 Beharaich 47 Mainpuri

DUTIES OF CONSULTANTS AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS UNDER NFSM AT NATIONAL, STATE AND DISTRICT LEVEL

National Food Security Mission in operation in 29 States has a provision for engaging National Consultant, State Consultants, District Consultants and Technical Assistants. While engaging Consultants/Technical Assistants under the Mission the following guidelines may be followed:

NATIONAL ADVISORS/CONSULTANTS:
A. Qualification: As prescribed in NFSM guidelines.
B. Duties: Advisers /National Consultant/Consultant:
• To provide technical guidance to the Mission Director/officers of the Department on matters related to interventions of the Mission. To examine action plans and to develop standardized formats for components of action plans
• To assist States in planning, formulation of NFSM action plans, whenever required.
• To provide technical assistance to NFSM staff in scrutinizing the action plans received from the States.
• To follow progress with respect to established time-lines and indicators for completion of each activity
• To monitor the quality of implementation of various interventions proposed in the Mission for improving the production of NFSM Crops.
• To assist Mission Director and other senior officers in synchronizing and synergizing with other divisions of DAC & FW; State governments; State agriculture Universities; ICAR research institutions and other stake holders on technical front.
• To facilitate formation of teams for monitoring the progress of 142

--- Page 144 ---

works in the States and provide technical guidance to them in conducting monitoring and evaluation.
• To coordinate the work of State Project Management Team and District Management Team.
• To visit the States periodically to provide technical guidance and impart knowledge about best practices.
• To assist in the conduction of specific central and regional workshops.
• To analyze the data received from various States and to come up with suggestions wherever improvements are required in the execution of the activities.
• To coordinate the implementation of DBT in the state and district levels.
• Documentation and dissemination of contribution of various interventions of cluster demonstration and success stories.
• To render overall help to the technical staff working in the cell.
• To perform other tasks specified by Mission Director.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS:
A. Qualification: As prescribed in NFSM guidelines.
B. Duties:
• To procure, compile and analyze the State wise data relating to the proposed interventions of the Mission activities.
• To maintain relevant records/ file and data of the various Mission activities.
• To assist in developing uniform formats for submission of action plans; monitoring and evaluation formats.
• To scrutinize the action plans for the interventions proposed.
• To undertake field visits to assess the progress of the Mission activities.
• To assist senior officers of the NFSM cell on all technical matters.

143

--- Page 145 ---

- To assist in implementation of DBT at states/ districts.
- To undertake other works assigned by the Mission director from time to time.

STATE CONSULTANTS:

A. Qualification: As prescribed in NFSM guidelines.

B. Duties:

1. Liaisoning with SAUs, ICAR Institutes & Commodity Directorates.
2. Identification and delineation of acid/alkali soils in the State.
3. Updating of package of practices of mandated crops and making the same available to the State/ districts.
4. Assessment of requirement of inputs for the State based on targets approved by GOI.
5. Development of training material and activity schedule for Cropping System based Training.
6. Planning of field demonstrations and supervision of the same.
7. Analysis of yield advantage attributable to improved practices/technology with due consideration to seasonal weather conditions, incidence of pest and diseases, soil conditions etc and reporting the same to the State Mission Director.
8. Training of field staff engaged in NFSM work.
9. Identification of promising crop varieties/hybrids of the mandated crops for the State.
10. Development of seed rolling plan for NFSM districts in consultation with SAUs, State Seed Corporation & State Department of Agriculture.
11. Implementation of DBT at state & district levels.
12. Making available technical information required by National Level Monitoring team during its visit to the State.
13. Development of technical literature/ extension

--- Page 146 ---

materials for farmers.
14. Compilation and documentation of contribution of various interventions under cluster demonstrations, lessons learnt and success stories from NFSM districts.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS:

A. Qualification: As prescribed in NFSM guidelines.

B. Duties: 
• To procure, compile and analyze the district wise data relating to the proposed interventions of the Mission activities. 
• To maintain relevant records/ file and data of the various Mission activities. 
• To undertake field visits to assess the progress of the Mission activities. 
• To undertake implementation of DBT at state and district levels. 
• To undertake other works assigned by the State Mission director from time to time.

DISTRICT CONSULTANTS: 

A. Qualifications: As prescribed in NFSM guidelines.

B. Duties:
1. Liaisoning with KVK and other Agricultural Research Organizations located in the districts.
2. Collection and maintenance of basic Agricultural and allied statistics of the district.
3. Planning and supervising conduction of field demonstration and FFS and reporting yield, weather data to the State Mission Director/State Consultant.
4. Development of technical/extension material for farmers in consultation with District Agricultural Officer and the State Consultant.
5. Assessing input requirement of the district for NFSM

--- Page 147 ---

programme.
6. Training of district extension staff in improved crop production practices withemphasis on mandated crops.
7. Analyze and documentation of the contribution of various interventions under cluster demonstrations and success stories.
8. To implement the DBT for all NFSM crops in the district.

TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS:


A. Qualifications: As per guidelines.


B. Duties:
   
   1. Conduction of field demonstrations with the help of Panchayat level fieldextension functionaries.
   
   2. Assisting Consultants in performance of duties assigned to them at State/ Districts level.
   
   3. Monitoring of crop condition, major incidence of insect/pest, nutrient deficiency and reporting to the District Consultant.
   
   4. To implementation the DBT for all NFSM crops at district level.

146

--- Page 148 ---

NFSM MODEL ACTIVITY PLAN (MAP)	Annexure-I (e)

S. No.	Activity Description (Category)	Union Government	State Government	District Level	LOCAL GOVERNMENTS AND PLANNING BODIES
Panchayati Raj System
District Panchayat	Intermediate Panchayat	Village Panchayat

1.	Setting Standards	DAC & FW: Issue guidelines for implementation of NFSM components in the States.	Issue translation of guidelines in local language to all stakeholders.	-			

147

--- Page 149 ---

2. Planning

DAC & FW: General Council (GC) takes decisions on policy issues and provides frameworks for preparation of Annual Action Plan by the States. National Food Security Mission Executive Committee chaired by Secretary (A&C) approves the Annual State Action Plans.

State Government prepares Annual Action Plan in consultation with SAUs and others concerned within the allocated funds. State Food Security Mission-Executive Committee (SFSMEC), chaired by Chief Secretary of the state to approve the Annual Action Plan after receiving the district plans.

District Food Security Mission Executive Committee (DFSMEC) headed by district collector/CEO of Zilla Parishad to prepare the district Action Plan and submits to SFSMEC for consideration.

DFSMEC prepares District Mission Action Plan (DMAP) taking inputs from district level PRIs.  

148

--- Page 150 ---

3. Demonstrations of improved crop technologies
DAC & FW: Release of funds to States.
Release of funds to District Level Implementing Agencies for implementation of the approved annual action plan of the district.
Allocation of funds to concerned Agencies in the districts for the implementation of the programmes.
-
-
Village / Gram Panchayat involved in selection of beneficiary farmers.

4. Seed Distribution
DAC & FW: Release of funds to States.
Release of funds by SFSMEC to District Level Implementing Agencies for implementation of the approved annual action plan of the district.
Allocation of funds to concerned Agencies in the districts.
-
-
Village / Gram Panchayat involved in selection of beneficiary farmers.

5. Integrated
DAC & FW: Release of funds to
Allocation of
Village / Gram

--- Page 151 ---

Nutrients/ soil ameliorants Management
of funds to States.
District Level Implementing Agencies for implementation of the approved annual action plan of the district.
funds to concerned Agencies in the districts.
- -
Panchayat involved in selection of beneficiary farmers.

6. Plant Protection Measures 
DAC & FW: Release of funds to States.
Release of funds to District Level Implementing Agencies for implementation of the approved annual action plan of the district.
Allocation of funds to concerned Agencies in the districts.
- -
Village /Gram Panchayat involved in selection of beneficiary farmers. 

150

--- Page 152 ---

7
(a) Flexi-component s Farm Machineries and Implements

DAC & FW: Release of funds to States.

Release of funds to District Level Implementing Agencies for implementation of the approved annual action plan of the district.

Allocation of funds to concerned Agencies in the districts.

Zilla Parishad involved in selection of beneficiary farmers

-

-

(b) Local Initiatives (identification of interventions on need based)

DAC & FW: Release of funds to States.

Release of funds to District Level Implementing Agencies for implementation of the approved annual action plan of the district.

Allocation of funds to concerned Agencies in the districts.

Zilla Parishad involved in identification of interventions

-

-

8
Monitoring & Evaluation of NFSM

Impact Evaluation

Concurrent Evaluation

Supervise implementation. Quarterly review

Providing feedback for

Providing feedback on

Providing feedback on progress. 

151

--- Page 153 ---

meetings for

monitoring

progress of

NFSM in

district,

providing

feedback for

policy

formulation

and

planning.

monitoring.

progress.

152

--- Page 154 ---

Annexure-II (a)

Districts Covered under NFSM-Rice

S. No.	Name of State	Districts
1	Andhra Pradesh (5)	Anantpur Vishakhapatnam
Cuddapah	Viziangram
Srikakulam	-
2	Arunachal Pradesh (10)	Changlang	Lower Dibang Valley
East Siang	Papum Pare
East Kamang	Tirap
Lohit (Tezu)	Upper Siang
Lower Subabsiri	West siang
3.	Assam (13)	Baksa	Kokrajhar
Barpeta	Lakhimpur
Bongaigaon	Morigaon
Chirang	Sonitpur
Dhemaji	Tinsukia
Dibrugarh	Udalgiri
Karbi-Anglong	-
4.	Bihar (15)	Araria	Muzaffarpur
Darbhanga	Purnia
East Champaran	Saharsa
Gopalganj	Samastipur
Katihar	Sitamarhi
Kishanganj	Siwan
Madhepura	Supaul
Madhubani	-
5.	Chhattisgarh (13)	Balod Bazar	Koriya
Bijapur	Mungeli
Bilaspur	Raigarh
Dantewara (South Bastar)	Raipur
Jashpur	Rajnandgaon
Kabirdham (Kawardha)	Sukma
Korba	-
6.	Gujarat (2)	Panchmahals	Vadidara
7.	Himachal Pradesh (2)	Kangra	Lahaul Spiti
8.	Jammu & Kashmir (8)	Anantnag	Kathua
Badgam	Kulgam
Baramullah	Kupwada
Jammu	Pulwama

….contd…

153

--- Page 155 ---

Annexure- II (a)-contd.

S. No. Name of State Districts

9. Jharkhand (4) Dumka Saraikela
Gumla West Singhbhum

10. Karnataka (7) Belgaum Udupi
Dakshi Kannada Uttar Kannada
Haven Yadgiri
Shimoga -

11. Kerala (1) Palakkad -

12. Madhya Pradesh (8) Anup Pur Mandla
Damoh Panna
Dindori Rewa
Katni Sidhi

13. Maharashtra (8) Bhandara Nagpur
Chandrapur Nasik
Gadchiroli Pune
Gondia Satara

14. Manipur (9) Bishunpur Senapati
Chandel Tamenglong
Churachandpur Thoubal
Imphal East Ukhrul
Imphal West -

15. Meghalaya (7) East Garo Hills South Garo Hills
East Khasi Hills West Garo Hills
East Jantia Hills West Khasi Hills
Ri-Bhoi District -

16. Mizoram (6) Aizwal Lawngtalai
Champhal Lugei District
Kolasib Mamit

17. Nagaland (11) Dimapur Peren
Kephire Phek
Kohima Tuensang
Lomgleng Wokha
Mokokchung Zunheboto
Mon -

....contd... 

154

--- Page 156 ---

Annexure- II (a)-contd.

S. No.		Name of State		Districts
18.		Odisha (8)			Angul								Malkangiri
							Deogarh							Nawapara
							Jharsuguda						Phulbani (Kandhmal)
							Keonjhar						Sundargarh
19.		Sikkim (2)		East								West
20.		Tamil Nadu (8)	Cuddalore						Sivagangai
							Nagapattinam					Thanjavur
							Pudokottai						Thiruvarur
							Ramanathapuram				Tiruvannamalai
21.		Telangana (4)	Adilabad							Mehboobnagar
							Khammam						Warangal
22.		Tripura (8)		Dhalai								South Tripura
							Gomti								Sipahijala
							Khowal							Unakoti
							North Tripura					West Tripura
23.		Uttar Pradesh (23)		Aligarh					Jaunpur
						Amethi (ChhatrapatiSahuji Maharaj Nagar)					Mau
						Azamgarh					Mirzapur
						Badaun						Moradabad
						Behraich					Pratapgarh
						Ballia							Raeberailly
						Balrampur					Rampur
						Bareilly						Sant Kabir Nagar
						Deoria							Shravasti
						Ghazipur					Sitapur
						Gorakhpur					Unnao
						Hardoi							–
24.		Uttarakhand (5)	Almora							Pithoragarh
							Haridwar						Udhamsingh Nagar
							Pauri Garhwal					
25.		West Bengal (7)	Cooch-Behar					Purulia
							Howrah						South 24 Paragnas
							Jalpaiguri					Uttar Dinajpur
							Purbi Midnapur			
				Total		25 States		and		194

--- Page 157 ---

Annexure-II (a)-contd.
Districts

156

--- Page 158 ---

Annexure-II (b)

Districts Covered under NFSM-Wheat

S. No.   Name of State                   Districts
1.       Bihar (10)                     Araria                      Nalanda
                                        Aurangabad                  Patna
                                        Bhojpur                     Sitamarhi
                                        Gaya                        Siwan
                                        Gopalganj                   Supaul

2.       Gujarat (5)                    Ahemdabad                   Kheda
                                        Anand                       Sabarkantha
                                        Banaskantha

3.       Haryana (7)                    Ambala                      Mewat
                                        Bhiwani                     Palwal
                                        Hissar                      Rohtak
                                        Jhajjar

4.       Himachal Pradesh (11)          Bilaspur                    Lahaul Spiti
                                        Chamba                      Mandi
                                        Hamirpur                    Sirmaur
                                        Kangra                      Solan
                                        Kinnaur                     Una
                                        Kullu 

5.       Jammu & Kashmir (8)            Jammu                       Poonch
                                        Kargil                      Rajauri
                                        Kathua                      Samba
                                        Leh                         Udhampur

6.       Madhya Pradesh (16)            Asok Nagar                  Rewa
                                        Chhattarpur                 Sagar
                                        Guna                        Satna
                                        Katni                       Seoni
                                        Khandwa                     (Eas Shivpuri
                                        tNimar)
                                        Panna                       Sidhi
                                        Raisen                      Tikamgarh
                                        Rajgarh                     Vidisha

7.       Maharashtra (3)                Beed                        Sholapur
                                        Nagpur 

Contd...

--- Page 159 ---

Annexure- II (b) contd.

S. No. Name of State Districts
8. Punjab (12) Ajitgarh (Mohali) Hoshiarpur
Amritsar Jallundhar
Bhatinda Kapurthala
Fazilka Pathankot
Ferozpur Roopnagar (Ropar)
Gurudaspur Taran Taaran

9. Rajasthan (14) Banswara Nagaur
Bhilwada Pali
Bikaner Pratapgarh
Jaipur Sawai Madhopur
Jhunjhunu Sikar
Jodhpur Tonk
Karauli Udaipur

10. Uttar Pradesh (31) Allahabad Hathras (Mahamanayagar)
Amethi (Chhatrapati Sahuji Maharaj Nagar) Jaunpur
Azamgarh Jhansi
Behraich Kaushambi
Ballia Kushinagar (Padrauna)
Balrampur Lalitpur
Banda Lucknow
Basti Mahoba
Chandauli Mau
Chtrakoot Mirzapur
Deoria Pratapgarh
Faizabad Sant Kabir Nagar
Ghazipur Shravasti
Gonda Sonbhadra
Gorakhpur Varanasi
Hamirpur -

11. Uttarakhand (9) Almora Pauri Garhwal
Bageshwar Pithoragarh
Dehradun Tehri Garhwal
Haridwar Udhamsingh Nagar
Nainital -

Total 11 States and 126 Districts

158

--- Page 160 ---

Districts Covered under NFSM-Pulses

S. No.	Name of State	Districts
1	Andhra Pradesh (13)	Anantpur
			Nellore
			Chittoor
			Prakasam
			Cuddapah
			Srikakulam
			East Godawari
			Vishakhapatnam
			Guntur
			Viziangram
			Krishna
			West Godawari
			Kurnool

2	Arunanchal Pradesh (17)	Anjaw
			Lower Dibang Valley
			Changlang
			Papum Pare
			Dibang Valley
			Tawang
			East Siang
			Tirap
			East Kamang
			Upper Siang
			Kurung Kumey
			Upper Subansiri
			Lohit (Tezu)
			West Kamang
			Longding
			West Siang
			Lower Subabsiri

3	Assam (27)	Baksa
			Kamroop Metropolitan
			Barpeta
			Kamrup
			Bongaigaon
			Karbi-Anglong
			Cachar
			Karimganj
			Chirang
			Kokrajhar
			Darrang
			Lakhimpur
			Dhemaji
			Morigaon
			Dhubri
			Nagaon
			Dibrugarh
			Nalbari
			Dima Hasao (NC Hills)
			Sibsagar
			Goalpara
			Sonitpur
			Golaghat
			Tinsukia
			Hailakandi
			Udalgiri
			Jorhat

--- Page 161 ---

15 Bulandshahr 48 Mathura
16 Chandauli 49 Mau
17 Chatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj 50 Mirzapur
18 Chitrakoot 51 Moradabad
19 Deoria 52 Pratapgarh
20 Etah 53 Rae Bareli
21 Etawah 54 Rampur
22 Faizabad 55 Sambhal
23 Farrukhabad 56 Sant Kabeer Nagar
24 Fatehpur 57 Shahjahanpur
25 Firozabad 58 Shamli
26 Ghazipur 59 Shravasti
27 Gonda 60 Sitapur
28 Gorakhpur 61 Siddharthnagar
29 Hamirpur 62 Sonbhadra
30 Hapur 63 Sultanpur
31 Hardoi 64 Unnao
32 Jalaun 65 Varanasi
33 Jaunpur

19. Uttarakhand (9)
1 Almora 6 Pauri Garhwal
2 Bageshwar 7 Pithoragarh
3 Dehradun 8 Tehri Garhwal
4 Haridwar 9 Udham Singh Nagar
5 Nainital

20. West Bengal (12)
1 24 Paraganas South 7 Jalpaiguri
2 Birbhum 8 Maldah
3 Coochbehar 9 Midnapore East
4 Darjeeling 10 Murshidabad
5 Dinajpur Uttar 11 Nadia
6 Howrah 12 Purulia

160

--- Page 162 ---

OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES OF PRADHAN MANTRI KRISHI SINCHAYEE YOJANA (PMKSY)

1.0 Introduction:

Hon’ble President in his address to the joint Session of the Parliament of 16th Lok Sabha indicated that “Each drop of water is precious. Government is committed to giving high priority to water security. It will complete the long pending irrigation projects on priority and launch the ‘Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana’ with the motto of ‘Har Khet Ko Paani’. There is a need for seriously considering all options including linking of rivers, where feasible; for ensuring optimal use of our water resources to prevent the recurrence of floods and drought. By harnessing rain water through ‘Jal Sanchay’ and ‘Jal Sinchan’, we will nurture water conservation and ground water recharge. Micro irrigation will be popularised to ensure ‘Per drop-More crop’.

Out of about 141 m.Ha of net area sown in the country, about 65 million hectare (or 45%) is presently covered under irrigation. Substantial dependency on rainfall makes cultivation in unirrigated areas a high risk, less productive profession. Empirical evidences suggest that assured or protective irrigation encourages farmers to invest more in farming technology and inputs leading to productivity enhancement and increased farm income.

The overreaching vision of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) will be to ensure access to some means of protective irrigation to all agricultural farms in the country, to produce ‘per drop more crop’, thus bringing much desired rural prosperity.

Objectives:

The broad objectives of PMKSY will be:-

a) Achieve convergence of investments in irrigation at the field level (preparation of district level and, if required, sub district level water use plans).

b) Enhance the physical access of water on the farm and expand cultivable area under assured irrigation (Har Khet ko pani),

c) Integration of water source, distribution and its efficient use, to make best use of water through appropriate technologies and practices.

d) Improve on-farm water use efficiency to reduce wastage and increase availability both in duration and extent,

e) Enhance the adoption of precision-irrigation and other water saving technologies (More crop per drop). Enhance recharge of aquifers and introduce sustainable water conservation practices

161

--- Page 163 ---

f) Ensure the integrated development of rainfed areas using the watershed approach towards soil and water conservation, regeneration of ground water, arresting runoff, providing livelihood options and other NRM activities.
g) Promote extension activities relating to water harvesting, water management and crop alignment for farmers and grass root level field functionaries.
h) Explore the feasibility of reusing treated municipal waste water for peri- urban agriculture, and
i) Attract greater private investments in irrigation.

This will in turn increase agricultural production and productivity and enhance farm income.

Strategy & Focus Areas:

To achieve above objectives, PMKSY will strategize by focussing on end- to end solution in irrigation supply chain, viz. water sources, distribution network, efficient farm level applications, extension services on new technologies & information etc. Broadly, PMKSY will focus on:-

a) Creation of new water sources; repair, restoration and renovation of defunct water sources; construction of water harvesting structures, secondary & micro storage, groundwater development, enhancing potentials of traditional water bodies at village level like Jal Mandir (Gujarat); Khatri, Kuhl (H.P.); Zabo (Nagaland); Eri, Ooranis (T.N.); Dongs (Assam); Katas, Bandhas (Odisha and M.P.) etc.
b) Developing/augmenting distribution network where irrigation sources (both assured and protective) are available or created;
c) Promotion of scientific moisture conservation and run off control measures to improve ground water recharge so as to create opportunities for farmer to access recharged water through shallow tube/dug wells;
d) Promoting efficient water conveyance and field application devices within the farm viz, underground piping system, Drip & Sprinklers, pivots, rain-guns andother application devices etc.;
e) Encouraging community irrigation through registered user groups/farmerproducers’ organisations/NGOs; and
f) Farmer oriented activities like capacity building, training and exposure visits, demonstrations, farm schools, skill development in efficient water and crop management practices (crop alignment) including large scale

162

--- Page 164 ---

awareness on more crop per drop of water through mass media campaign, exhibitions, fielddays, and extension activities through short animation films etc.

The aforesaid areas only outline the broad contours of PMKSY; combinationof interventions may be required depending on location specific conditions and requirements, which will be identified through District and State Irrigation Plans. More focus on irrigation development will be given to deficient states in terms of irrigation coverage. The state wise matrix showing State wise rainfed and irrigatedarea is given at Appendix-a.

4.0 Programme Components
PMKSY will have following programme components:

A. Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme(AIBP)

a) To focus on faster completion of ongoing Major and Medium Irrigation including National Projects.

B. PMKSY (Har Khet ko Pani)

a) Creation of new water sources through Minor Irrigation (both surface and ground water)
b) Repair, restoration and renovation of water bodies; strengthening carrying capacity of traditional water sources, construction rain water harvesting structures (Jal Sanchay);
c) Command area development, strengthening and creation of distribution network from source to the farm;
d) Ground water development in the areas where it is abundant, so that sink is created to store runoff/ flood water during peak rainy season.
e) Improvement in water management and distribution system for water bodies to take advantage of the available source which is not tapped to its fullest capacity (deriving benefits from low hanging fruits). At least 10% of the command area to be covered under micro/precision irrigation.
f) Diversion of water from source of different location where it is plenty to nearby water scarce areas, lift irrigation from water bodies/rivers at lower elevation to supplement requirements beyond IWMP and MGNREGS irrespective of irrigation command.
g) Creating and rejuvenating traditional water storage systems like Jal Mandir (Gujarat); Khatri, Kuhl (H.P.); Zabo (Nagaland); Eri, Ooranis 163

--- Page 165 ---

(T.N.); Dongs (Assam); Katas, Bandhas (Odisha and M.P.) etc. at feasible locations.

C. PMKSY (Per Drop More Crop)

a) Programme management, preparation of State/District Irrigation Plan, approval of annual action plan, Monitoring etc.

b) Promoting efficient water conveyance and precision water application devices like drips, sprinklers, pivots, rain-guns in the farm (Jal Sinchan);

c) Topping up of input cost particularly under civil construction beyond permissible limit (40%), under MGNREGS for activities like lining inlet, outlet, silt traps, distribution system etc.

d) Construction of micro irrigation structures to supplement source creation activities including tube wells and dug wells (in areas where ground water is available and not under semi critical /critical /over exploited category of development) which are not supported under AIBP, PMKSY (Har Khet ko Pani), PMKSY (Watershed) and MGNREGS as per block/district irrigation plan.

e) Secondary storage structures at tail end of canal system to store water when available in abundance (rainy season) or from perennial sources like streams for use during dry periods through effective on-farm water management;

f) Water lifting devices like diesel/ electric/ solar pumpsets including water carriage pipes, underground piping system.

g) Extension activities for promotion of scientific moisture conservation and agronomic measures including cropping alignment to maximise use of available water including rainfall and minimise irrigation requirement (Jal sarankchan);

h) Capacity building, training and awareness campaign including low cost publications, use of pico projectors and low cost films for encouraging potential use water source through technological, agronomic andmanagement practices including community irrigation.

i) The extension workers will be empowered to disseminate relevant technologies under PMKSY only after requisite training is provided to them especially in the area of promotion of scientific moisture conservation and agronomic measures, improved/ innovative distribution system like pipe and box outlet system, etc. Appropriate Domain Experts will act as MasterTrainers.

164

--- Page 166 ---

j) Information Communication Technology (ICT) interventions through NeGP-A to be made use in the field of water use efficiency, precision irrigation technologies, on farm water management, crop alignment etc.and also to do intensive monitoring of the Scheme.

D. PMKSY (Watershed Development)

a) Effective management of runoff water and improved soil & moisture conservation activities such as ridge area treatment, drainage line treatment, rain water harvesting, in-situ moisture conservation and other allied activities on watershed basis.
b) Converging with MGNREGS for creation of water source to full potential in identified backward rainfed blocks including renovation of traditional waterbodies

Eligible activities under these components are at Appendix-b.

5.0 District and State Irrigation Plans

District Irrigation Plans (DIPs) shall be the cornerstone for planning and implementation of PMKSY. DIPs will identify the gaps in irrigation infrastructure after taking into consideration the District Agriculture Plans (DAPs) already prepared for Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) vis-à-vis irrigation infrastructure currently available and resources that would be added during XII Plan from other ongoing schemes (both State and Central), like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme(MGNREGS), Rashtriya Krishi Vikash Yojana (RKVY), Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF), Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) Scheme, Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development (MLALAD) Scheme, Local body funds etc. The gaps indentified under Strategic Research & Extension Plan (SREGP) will be made use in preparation of DIP.

DIPs will present holistic irrigation development perspective of the district outlining medium to long term development plans integrating three components viz. water sources, distribution network and water use applications incorporating all usage of water like drinking & domestic use, irrigation and industry. Preparation of DIP will be taken up as joint exercise of all participating departments. DIP will form the compendium of all existing and proposed water resource network system in the district. 
165

--- Page 167 ---

The DIPs may be prepared at two levels, the block and the district. Keeping in view the convenience of map preparation and data collection, the work would be primarily done at block level. Block wise irrigation plan is to be prepared depending on the available and potential water resources and water requirement for agriculture sector prioritising the activities based on socio-economic and location specific requirement. In case of planning is made based on basin/subbasin level, the comprehensive irrigation plan may cover more than one district. The activities identified in the basin/sub-basin plan can be further segregated into district/block level action plans. Use of satellite imagery, topo sheets and available database may be appropriately utilised for developing irrigation plans at least on pilot basis to begin with and subsequently may be extended to all projects. DPRs of watershed projects should be taken into account while preparation of DIPs.

These plans need to be developed following intensive participatory consultation process including Panchayati Raj Institutions. Agriculture Universities in the State May also be closely involved with the formulation and implementation of the Detailed Project Report and the District Level Plans. Technical, financial and human resources available for this sector with departments of rural development, urban development, drinking water, environment & forest, science & technology, Industrial policy etc. to be leveraged for comprehensive development of water sector.

Creating access to water source either assured or protective to each farm will require a demand and supply assessment of crop water requirement, effective rainfall and potential source of existing & new water sources considering geo- hydrological and agro ecological scenario of the block. The master plan will include information on all sources of available water, distribution network, defunct water bodies, new potential water sources both surface and sub- surface systems, application & conveyance provisions, crops and cropping system aligned to available/designed quantity of water and suitable to local agro ecology. All activities pertaining water harvesting, water augmentation from surface/sub surface sources, distribution and application of water including repair renovation and restoration of water bodies, major medium and minor irrigation works, command area development etc. are to be taken up within the frame work of this master plan. Emphasis is to be given for deriving potential benefit from low hanging fruits like extending the reach/coverage of water source through effective distribution and application mechanism, reducing the gap between potential created and utilized through more focus on command area development and precision irrigation. Proper integration of creation of

--- Page 168 ---

source like dams and water harvesting structures, distribution system like canals and command area development works and precision farming to be made for deriving best possible use of water resources. Steps may also be taken for use of urban treated waste water for irrigation purpose. For respective cities a command area may be identified for this purpose in and around the adjoining agricultural land of urban habitation. However, the recommended norms (given Appendix-C) of treated sewage quality for specified activities at point of use be ensured during use of recycled water.

SIP will not only consolidate the DIPs and correlate with State Agriculture Plan (SAP), already available for RKVY, but also prioritize resources and outline definite annual action plan with a medium to long term horizon. The plan would also enumerate on extension & ICT related activities to be undertaken under supervision of Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA). 

DIPs and SIP will provide requisite emphasis on convergence by eliminating overlap of resources & efforts and ensuring optimal utilization of funds available through various Centrally Sponsored/State Plan Schemes.

Each District will be provided one time financial support to prepare District Irrigation Plan. DIPs and SIP are to be finalized within a period of three months from launching of PMKSY. National Rainfed Area Authority (NRAA) will be associated in preparation of SIP and providing advisories to State Governments for comprehensive irrigation development.

While formulating District Irrigation Plans (DIPs), suggestions of Hon’ble Member’s of Parliament and Member’s of Legislative Assembly of that is to be invited and will be included in DIPs after due technical consideration. Highest priority is to be given on valuable suggestions/recommendations of Member of Parliament of that particular district subject to technical/financial viability.

6.0 Cost Norm & Pattern of Assistance:

Technical requirements / standards, pattern of assistance etc. for activities of respective components like AIBP, PMKSY (Har Khet Ko Pani), PMKSY (Per drop more crop) and PMKSY (Watershed Development) will be as per the existing guidelines of the respective Ministries/Departments or as per revised norms including that of additional activities introduced, to be issued by the respective ministries/departments with the approval of concerned Union Minister. 

167

--- Page 169 ---

In the absence of equivalent Central Plan Scheme, norms and conditions prescribed by respective State Governments for their schemes may be applied.

In cases where no Central / State Govt. norms are available, a certificate of reasonableness of proposed project cost along with reasons thereof will invariably be given by State Level Project Screening Committee (SLPSC) in each such case.

States should adhere to Govt. approved rate e.g. Schedule of rate of CPWD/PWD/Irrigation Dept or similar Govt. agencies working in rural areas, for creation of irrigation infrastructure.

Eligibility criteria:

Instead of incremental budgeting, PMKSY will adopt a dynamic annual fund allocation methodology that mandates States to allocate more funds to irrigation sectors for becoming eligible to access PMKSY funds. For this purpose:

a) A State will become eligible to access PMKSY fund only if it has prepared the District Irrigation Plans (DIP) and State Irrigation Plan (SIP), excepting for the initial year, and the expenditure in water resource development for agriculture sector in the year under consideration is not less than baseline expenditure. The baseline expenditure will be the average of expenditure in irrigation sector irrespective of state departments (i.e. creation of water source, distribution, management and application from State plan schemes) in State Plan in three years prior to the year under consideration.

b) States will be given additional weightage for levying charges on water and electricity for irrigation purpose, so as to ensure sustainability of the programme.

c) Inter State allocation of PMKSY fund will be decided based on (i) share of percentage of unirrigated area in the State vis-à-vis National average including prominence of areas classified under Dessert Development Programme (DDP) and Drought Prone Area Development Programme (DPAP) and (ii) increase in percentage share of expenditure on water resource development for agriculture sector in State Plan expenditure in the previous year over three years prior to it (iv) improvement in irrigation efficiency in the state.

--- Page 170 ---

8.0 Funding Pattern

PMKSY funds will be provided to the State Governments as per the pattern of assistance of Centrally Sponsored Schemes decided by Ministry of Finance and NITI Aayog. During 2015-16, existing pattern of assistance of ongoing schemes will be continued.

9.0 Programme Architecture:

PMKSY will be implemented in area development mode only by adopting a ‘decentralized State level planning and projectised execution’ structure that will allow States to draw up their own irrigation development plans based on DIPs and SIPs with a horizon of 5-7 years. Initial phase of implementation will be the remaining two years of XII Plan.

States will allocate about 50% of the PMKSY funds by prioritizing projects among those districts having larger share of unirrigated areas, lesser agriculture productivity vis-à-vis State’s average and higher population of SC/ST and Small & Marginal Farmers (SMF). States will also give priority to villages identified under Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojana (SAGY) while implementing PMKSY. The remaining 50% may be prioritised for operationalising /saturating projects which are under terminal stage of completion (water resource development/watershed). Priority to also be given for reducing the gap between irrigation potential created and actually utilised through command area development and precision irrigation.

As PMKSY will be a area-based scheme with projectised approach, Project Reports will have to be prepared for each of the PMKSY component based on the comprehensive irrigation plan incorporating all essential ingredients i.e. feasibility studies, competencies of the implementing agencies, anticipated benefits (outputs/outcomes) that will flow to the farmers/ State, definite time-lines for implementation etc.

Detailed Project Report (DPR) of each cluster will have four sub projects catering to respective components i.e., AIBP, PMKSY(Har Khet Ko Pani), PMKSY (More Crop Per Drop), PMKSY(Watershed Development) depending on the activities covered under the respective components with funding support required. It should be ensured that there is no duplication of funding and/or undertaking similar activities in the same areas under other Plan schemes of Central/State Government and clearly indicate the year-wise physical & financial targets proposed under each project component wise.

169

--- Page 171 ---

In case of large individual project activity costing more than Rs. 25 crore, it will be subjected to third party ‘techno-financial evaluation’.

In order to ensure efficient use of water, extension services will focus at targeting in how to make best use of available water through crops/cropping system aligned to agro-ecological conditions and suitable agronomic practices to ensure larger coverage and equity to farmers. In selected areas, few progressive farmers may be sensitised towards this subject and incentivised to experiment with changes in cropping pattern with available irrigation facilities. Farm school component of ATMA scheme would be suitably used to take up this activity. Cluster of 8 to 10 villages may be taken up in districts for saturating those as per the plan for showcasing potential augmentation of water and its efficient use. The success of these clusters in promoting such activities may be replicated in other parts of the district.

Extending the reach of micro irrigation to a larger coverage will be ensured involving companies associated with precision irrigation for awareness campaign, demonstration, capacity building training, providing maintenance service, technical support etc. A greater role of these companies will be specified in the operational guidelines of this component.

The success stories of indigenous practices like Jal mandir; Khatri; Kuhl; Zabo Ouranis; Dongs; Katas; Bandhas etc., innovative projects, participatory management etc. may be captured and documented for sharing with other states and agencies for wider replication.

10.0 Nodal Department:

Since, the final outcome of PMKSY is to ensure access to efficient delivery and application of water at every farm thereby enhancing agricultural production & productivity, State Agriculture Department will be the Nodal Department for implementation of PMKSY. All communication between Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and State Government would be with and through the nodal department.

However, the implementing departments for the four components like AIBP, PMKSY(Har Khet Ko Pani), PMKSY (Per drop more crop) and PMKSY(Watershed Development) will be decided by the respective programme Ministry/Department.

State Governments will utilize the existing mechanism and structure available under RKVY in the state for overall supervision and coordination of

--- Page 172 ---

the programme. State may also strengthen the existing State Level Agencies available for similar activities for entrusting the responsibility of coordinating the works of PMKSY. State may also restructure the existing SAMETI or SLNA setup of IWMP with inclusion of additional members to address the mandate of PMKSY and function under supervision of National Rainfed Area Authority (NRAA) for implementation of PMKSY. All the proposals need to be vetted by the State Level Coordinating agency before it is put up to Inter Departmental Working Group and State Level Sanctioning Committee. PMKSY will have a strong technical component and domain experts for management of the programme. Engagement of consultants, professionals will be supported from the administrative provisions available to the State under the programme.

Nodal Department/Agency identified by State will collate all the sub projects of each cluster received from different implementing departments/districts as one DPR and place before the Inter Departmental Working Group (IDWG) for scrutiny and State Level Sanctioning Committee (SLSC) for sanction.

Nodal department/agency will also be responsible for monitoring, coordinating physical & financial progress with implementing departments/agencies and furnishing consolidated Utilisation Certificates (UC) and physical/financial progress reports to Govt. of India.

In addition, nodal department/agency will also be responsible for the following:-

(i) Coordinating preparation of DIPs and SIP;
(ii) Coordinating preparation and appraisal of projects, implementing, monitoring, and evaluation with various Departments and implementing Agencies.
(iii) Management of funds received from the Central, and State Governments and disbursement of the funds to the implementing agencies.
(iv) Furnishing of quarterly physical & financial progress reports to the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation.
(v) Effectively utilizing and regularly updating web enabled IT based PMKSY Management Information System (PMKSY-MIS).
(vi) To convene meeting of SLSC and IDWG. The meeting notice along with sufficient number of copies (not less than 20) of agenda and project details be sent to DAC so as to reach at least 15 days before the meeting of SLSC to enable Government of India’s representatives to come 171

--- Page 173 ---

11.0 State Level Sanctioning Committee (SLSC):

State Level Sanctioning Committee (SLSC), already constituted under RKVY and chaired by the Chief Secretary of the State, will be vested with the authority to sanction specific projects recommended by the IDWG in a meeting attended by representatives of Government of India.

SLSC will, inter alia, also be responsible for:

a) Approving the State Irrigation Plan(SIP) and District Irrigation Plan (DIP)
b) Sanctioning and prioritizing funding of projects under PMKSY;
c) Monitoring and reviewing implementation of PMKSY;
d) Ensuring convergence with other schemes and that no duplication of efforts or resources takes place;
e) Ensuring that there are no inter-district disparities with respect to the financial patterns/subsidy assistance in the projects;
f) To decide the implementing agency/dept. in the state for particular project depending on the nature of the project and expertise available with the agency/dept.
g) Ensuring that the programme implementation in accordance with guidelines laid down by the concerned programme component Ministry/Department
h) Initiating evaluation studies from time to time, as may be required;
i) Ensuring that all extant procedures and instructions of Govt. of India are followed so that the expenditure incurred on implementation of the projects is barest minimum with due concern for economy in expenditure and also in conformity with the cannons of financial propriety, transparency and probity.
j) To ensure that Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRI) areactively involved in implementation of PMKSY, especially in selection of beneficiaries, conductingsocial audit etc.

SLSC’s may approve PMKSY projects upto twice the amount of State’s annualallocation under PMKSY to cater to multi-year duration projects and prioritizing funding based on physical progress.

Existing SLSC shall be strengthened by including members from relevant Departments e.g. Irrigation/water resources and Soil conservation, Watershed, Rural Development/Rural Works, Forest and State Level Nodal Agency (SLNA) under IWMP.

--- Page 174 ---

SLSC may also co-opt members from experts in water sector, public/private agencies working in irrigation sector, reputed NGOs working in the field of irrigation, research institutions, leading farmers etc.

Beside Ministry of Agriculture, SLSC will also have Govt. of India’s representatives from Ministry of Water Resources, Dept. of Land Resources and Ministry of Rural Development. The quorum for SLSC meetings would not be complete without the presence of at least two representatives from the Government of India.

The SLSC will be supported by the Inter Department Working Group (IDWG), comprising of Secretaries of the line Departments of Horticulture, Agriculture,Rural Development, Irrigation, Surface and Ground Water Resources.

State Nodal Cell/Coordinating Agency will ensure timely receipt of District Irrigation Plans (DIPs), formulation of State Irrigation Plan and its approval by the SLSC. The SNC will then convey the approval and monitor implementation of the work plans by the line Departments.

12. Inter Departmental Working Group (IDWG):

Inter Department Working Group (IDWG), comprising of Secretaries of the line Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Rural Development, Water Resources/Irrigation, Command Area Development, Watershed Development, Soil Conservation, Environment & Forest, Departments dealing with Ground Water Resources, drinking water, town planning, industrial policy, science & technology and all concerned departments associated with water sector. The IDWG will be chaired by the Agriculture Production Commissioner/Development Commissioner. In departments, where separate secretaries are not there, Directors will act as Members of IDWG. Director(Agriculture)/ Engineer in Chief (water Resources/Irrigation) will work as co-convenors of IDWG. The IDWG will be responsible for day to day coordination and management of the Scheme activities within the State. IDWG will be the coordinating agency among all the ministries/ departments/ agencies/ research/ financial institutions engaged in creation/ use/ recycling/ conservation of water to bring them together under a single platform to take a comprehensive and holistic view of the entire water cycle so as to ensure that each drop of water is put to the best possible use. It will scrutinise /prioritise the project proposals/DPRs in conformity with the guidelines and that they emanate from SIP/DIPs, besides being consistent

--- Page 175 ---

with technical standards & financial norms. IDWG will further examine and ensure that:

a) Funds available under other schemes of the State Government and /or Govt. of India for the proposed projects have been accessed and utilized/planned for utilization before they are brought under the PMKSY ambit;

b) PMKSY projects/activities should not create any duplication or overlapping of assistance /area coverage vis-à-vis other schemes/programmes of State/Central Government;

c) PMKSY funds are not being proposed as additional or ‘top-up’ subsidy to other ongoing schemes/programmes of State/Central Government excepting for topping up of material cost beyond the approved limit of the respective schemes like programmes (material component is restricted of the 40% of the exact cost under MGNREGS .

d) DPRs have included provision for monitoring and evaluation;

e) Convergence with other State/Central Schemes has been attempted

13. The District Level Implementation Committee (DLIC):

DLIC will form the third tier of the PMKSY. The DLIC will be chaired by the Collector/District Magistrate and will comprise of CEO Zila Parishad/PD DRDA, Joint Director/Deputy director of Departments of Horticulture, Agriculture, Rural Development, Surface and Ground Water Resources, Irrigation and any other line Departments in the district, District Forest Officer, Lead bank officer of the District.

The Project Director, Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) will be the Member Secretary of DLIC. In addition, DLIC may have two progressive farmers, and a leading NGO working in the District, if any. The farmers will be nominated for one year from District Farmers Advisory Committee under ATMA. The NGO representative will be nominated by the Collector/District Magistrate.

The DLIC will oversee the implementation and inter-departmental coordination at district level and will have following role:

a. To act as the field level coordinator between the various implementation agencies/line departments in the District and to ensure that the agreed District Irrigation Plan/ Annual Irrigation Plan is successfully implemented

b. To prepare the District Irrigation Plan (DIP), showing the contribution

--- Page 176 ---

of various funding streams and programmes towards specific outputs and outcomes and seek approval of the SLSC for the same.  
c. To prepare Annual Irrigation Plans (AIPs) arising out of the DIPs and to forward them to the SLSC for approval.  
d. To monitor the progress of various components of the AIPs, to remove implementation hurdles and make periodic reports to SLSC.  
e. To undertake public awareness and publicity efforts for engaging farmers, PRIs, media and other local stakeholders to build support for the implementation of the DIPs.   

The Project Director, Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA) will make use of the existing infrastructure and staff under ATMA in districts and blocks for discharging duties under PMKSY.  

The DLIC will prepare the District Irrigation Plan (DIP) for the district which will include mapping existing water resource of the district created by various sources of irrigation, measures to identify the water risk status of the district, to identify the new source of water to enhance physical water availability at the farm level, measures to improve water use efficiency and water distribution. The DIP should taken into account the outcomes of studies conducted by ICAR on existing and traditional cropping patterns especially in the context of optimal use of water resources. In addition, the traditional water management system of that particular area has to be taken into account, while formulating the DIP. MoWR,RD& GR should consult the State Governments for studying the traditional water management system within a month and provide the information to all the States for incorporation in DIP.  

Ministry of Urban Development will incorporate compulsory water harvesting system in their model regulations being framed for Building Construction, and State Governments shall take into consideration these model regulations while formulating their building regulations. District Irrigation Plan willbe prepared by IAS and IFS(Forest) officers of three junior most batches. Training modules for formulation of DIP shall be prepared by ICAR institutes in consultation with other relevant institutions and training on model for DIP formulation will be imparted to them by the end of September, 2015 and officers will be completed this task by end of December, 2015. ATMA Management Committee will assist DLIC in coordinating and executing extension related activities under PMKSY.  

175

--- Page 177 ---

14.0 National Steering Committee (NSC):

An Inter-Ministerial National Steering Committee (NSC) will be constituted under the Chairmanship of Prime Minister with Union Ministers from concerned Ministries like Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation; Rural Development; Land Resources; Urban Development; Drinking Water & Sanitation; Financial Services; Tribal Affairs; Expenditure; Panchayati Raj; Science & Technology; Environment, Forest & Climate Change; Industrial Policy, Development of North Eastern Region (DONER); Vice Chairman, NITI Aayog; as members with Secretary(A&C) as Member Secretary to provide general policy strategic directions/advisories for programme implementation, protect interstate issues, and provide overall supervision addressing national priorities etc. The NSC will adopt its own working procedure and delegate such powers as it considers fit to the National Executive Committee.

15.0 National Executive Committee (NEC):

A National Executive Committee (NEC) will be constituted under the Chairmanship of Vice Chairman, Niti Ayog with Secretaries of concerned Ministries/Departments and Chief Secretaries of selected States on rotation basis, representatives from professional institutes like NABARD & other financial institutions engaged in creation/use/recycling of water, SAC, MNCFC, ISRO, IMD, ICAR; Additional Secretary & FA of DAC, DoLR, MoWR; CEO of NRAA; Selected Experts as members with Joint Secretary (DAC) in charge of PMKSY as Member Secretary to oversee programme implementation, allocation of resources, inter ministerial coordination, monitoring & performance assessment, addressing administrative issues etc.

16.0 Release of Funds:

60% of the PMKSY annual allocation will be released as first instalment to the State, upon the receipt of the minutes of SLSC approving implementation of new projects and/or continuation of ongoing projects during the financial year alongwith lists of projects approved. Release of funds will be made by the respective Ministry/department for the specific component. The concerned implementing ministries /department will be responsible to ensure receipt of utilisation certificate and corresponding physical and financial progress while releasing the funds for the specific component. The utilisation certificate is to be submitted by the respective implementing department/agency in the State.

176

--- Page 178 ---

In case, total cost of approved project is less than annual outlay, funds tothe tune of 60% of approved project cost will be released.

Release of the second and final instalment would be considered on receipt of the following: 
a) More than 90% Utilization Certificates (UCs) for the funds released upto previous financial year; 
b) Utilisation Certificates (UCs) of at least 50% of funds released in first instalment during current year; and 
c) Performance report in terms of physical and financial achievements as well as outcomes, within the stipulated time frame in specified format.

If a State fails to submit these documents within reasonable period of time, balance funds may be re-allocated to better performing States.

Monitorable targets against funds released will be fixed for all critical sub- components and any achievements in a given timeframe will be reported for each activity with respect to baseline/historic data. This may include increase in production area, productivity, use of micro irrigation facilities etc. In this process, the focus should also be on to fix accountability and use technology.

Nodal department shall ensure that Project-wise accounts are maintained by the Implementing Agencies and are subjected to the normal process of Statutory Audit. The assets so created and expenditure made there on may be provided to concerned Gram Sabha for the purpose of social audit. Likewise, an inventory of the assets created under PMKSY Projects except for those for individual farmers etc. should be carefully preserved and assets that are no longer required should be transferred to the Nodal Department or as per the guidelines of the respective programme components, for its use and redeployment where possible.

Central assistance under PMKSY will be released as per extant guidelines of the Ministry of Finance, Govt. of India.

17.0 Administrative Expenses & Contingencies:

Administrative expenses may be met on pro-rata basis from the programme, not exceeding 5 percent, at each level to strengthen coordination, scientific planning and technical support for effective implementation of PMKSY at the field level. In case of ongoing IWMP projects, the administrative cost as admissible under the common guidelines for watershed development

--- Page 179 ---

projects (para-67 of common guidelines) i.e. upto 10% of the budget for specific watershed projects, may be admissible. Administrative expenditure for functioning of Coordinating agency/institutions responsible for implementing PMKSY, payments to consultants, outsourcing of specific activities, recurring expenses of various kinds, staff costs etc. are admissible. However, no permanent employment can be created, nor can vehicles be purchased. States may supplement any administrative expenditure in excess of the permissible limit, from their own resources. Govt. of India may retain 1.5% of the PMKSY provision for IEC activities and another 1.5% of the allocations for administrative, monitoring, evaluation and any contingencies that may arise during the implementation of the scheme by each participating departments. In the first year (2015-16), an amount to the tune of Rs. 75 Cr will be set aside for preparing DIP and SIP, which will be met out of the funds earmarked for DAC.

DAC may set up a technical support group by assigning dedicated officers and staff from its existing strength and engaging consultants, experts. DAC may outsource some technical assignments to specific agencies including studies, training programmes relating to PMKSY activities. Workshops, conferences, awareness campaign, publicity, documentation etc.

18.0 Monitoring & Evaluation:

A web-based Management Information System for PMKSY (PMKSY- MIS) will be developed to collect essential information related to each project. States will be responsible for timely submission/updating project data online in the system (preferably on a fortnightly basis), which will provide current and authenticated data on outputs, outcome and contribution of PMKSY projects in the public domain. Monitorable targets against each component will be fixed by concerned Ministry/department of GOI such as Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Water Resources, RD& GR, Department of Land Resources and Ministry of Rural Development for all sub-components (MoRD will enter the information only for creation of water sources in the identified rainfed and backward blocks for special focus by MGNREGA funds where DoLR to complete their ongoing watershed programmes). Any achievements in a given timeframe will be reported for each activity with respect to baseline/historic data. This may include increase in production area, productivity, use of precision facilities etc. In this process, the focus should also be on to fix accountability and use technology for not meeting the targets and time frame of implementation.

--- Page 180 ---

PMKSY-MIS reports shall be the basis of ‘on line monitoring’ and judging ‘Inter-State performance’; States may establish a dedicated PMKSY-MIS cell forthis purpose.

The assets created under “Pradhan Mantri Gramin Sinchai Yojana” will be geo-tagged and mapped on to location maps using Bhuvan application developed by Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). This activity will be dovetailed with the new Innovative Technology Dissemination component of hand held devices under NAMET. The extension workers or other verification authorities will fill in details of the asset being created or completed under the Scheme by completing online form as an Android application. Asset details of each irrigation source and distribution channel with digitized satellite imagery with necessary information on capacity, sources, inlets, outlets etc. to be uploaded using geo- tagging feature of a GPS enabled smart phone. In order to fine-tune this activity, village boundaries as per Survey of India (having latitude/longitude details) will be used in conjunction with District/Block codes strictly in keeping with the Farmer’s Portal so as to avoid any duplication or contradiction. Each structure will have a unique ID no. with “first two letters of state/abbreviated scheme name/ first three letters of district/year of operationalization/ longitude/latitude”. Services of MNCFCwill be utilised for such activities.

Twenty five percent (25%) of the projects sanctioned by the State shall have to be compulsorily taken up for third party monitoring and evaluation by the implementing States. Besides, the accounts of all this assets created will have to be put before the Gram Sabha for social audit.

Action plan for monitoring and evaluation will be chosen by SLSC everyyear in its first meeting based on project cost, importance of the project etc. preferably covering all sectors. The State Government will be free to choose any reputed agencies for conducting the monitoring and evaluation work in their States. Requisite fees/cost towards monitoring & evaluation will be met by the State Government from the 5% allocation retained by them for administrative expenses.DAC will evolve suitable mechanism for concurrent evaluation of implementation of PMKSY. DAC may also engage suitable agency for conducting State specific/Pan India periodic implementation monitoring and/or mid-term/end- term evaluation of the scheme. NRAA will be involved in the process of mid- term /end term evaluation of PMKSY programme.

--- Page 181 ---

The performance of the States will be reflected in the Outcome Budget document of the respective Ministry/Department.

19.0 Convergence:

PMKSY will ensure convergence with all rural assets/infrastructure based programmes related to water conservation and management programmes/schemes like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Rashtriya Krishi Vikash Yojana (RKVY), Jawaharlal Nehru National Solar Mission and Rural Electrification programmes, Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF), Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) Scheme, Member of Legislative Assembly Local Area Development (MLALAD) Scheme, Local body funds, Working Plan of State Forest Department etc. The inputs from the Intensive Participatory Planning Exercise (IPPE) already conducted under MGNREGA in 2,500 backward Blocks may be used in preparing the DIP. In most cases the labour intensive works like earth works for source creation may be taken up under MGNREGA. Emphasis be given for utilising MGNREGA fund for de-silting of ponds, canals, defunct water bodies like old ponds, Jal Mandir, khul, Tanka etc. to improve storage capacity and creating scopes for water availability for irrigation purposes. PMKSY(Per Drop More Crop) fund may also be used for topping up of material cost beyond the specified limit, i.e., 40% in the MGNREGA for lining, inlet, outlet, silt trap, adjustable gates etc. All stake holders viz farmers, Panchayat and grass route level functionaries be made aware of scientific/technical processes of cleaning canals, de-siltation, construction of water harvesting structures etc., through extension activities including use of IEC, short animation films etc. to get maximum benefit of MGNREGA for these works. Other works can be taken up from PMKSY(Har Khet Ko Pani), PMKSY(Watershed) etc. depending on the type and nature of works. Where irrigation source is created, the PMKSY(Per drop more crop) component be potentially made use to improve irrigation efficiency and extend larger coverage from the same source. Department of Land Resources is in the process of starting the World Bank assisted “Neeranchal” project. Neeranchal is proposed to focus on better scientific basin level planning, new technologies for efficient water management, community level hydrology, enhanced production and yields, linkages with markets, real time monitoring systems using state of the art technologies.

--- Page 182 ---

and urban watersheds. Neeranchal will support PMKSY with proper synergy between the two programmes.

Where more than one department has to converge to implement a single scheme, each department may take up a separate component for implementation. Wherever irrigation potential has been created, but is lying unutilised for want of field channels, works for creating such supporting infrastructure shall be taken up under MGNREGA on priority and such works should also be part of the District Irrigation Plan. In respect of the irrigation works to be taken up under MGNREGA, technical support of other line departments would be provided. In fact, such support will enable scientific plans and execution of such works as part of PMKSY.

Ministry of Panchayati Raj shall also be appropriately consulted for ensuring that local/Panchayat level requirements are adequately addressed in DIPs and SIP. PMKSY will also accord priorities to villages identified under Sansad Adarsh Garm Yojana (SAGY).

20.0 Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India may affect changes in the PMKSY operational guidelines, other than those affecting the financing pattern as the scheme evolves, whenever such changes areconsidered necessary with the approval of NEC.

21.0 These guidelines are applicable to all the States and Union Territories.

--- Page 183 ---

Appendix-a

State-wise Extent of Net Sown, Irrigated and Rainfed Area (2011-12)

(in thousand hectares)

Sl	State	Net Sown Area	Net irrigated area	Rainfed area
1	Andhra Pradesh	11161	5090	6071
2	Arunachal Pradesh	215	57	158
3	Assam	2811	161	2650
4	Bihar	5396	3052	2344
5	Chattisgarh	4677	1415	3262
6	Goa	132	41	91
7	Gujarat	10302	4233	6069
8	Haryana	3513	3073	440
9	Himachal Pradesh	538	106	432
10	Jammu & Kashmir	746	319	427
11	Jharkhand	1085	125	960
12	Karnataka	9941	3440	6501
13	Kerala	2040	409	1631
14	Madhya Pradesh	15237	7887	7350
15	Maharashtra	17386	3252	14134
16	Manipur	365	69	296
17	Meghalaya	285	65	220
18	Mizoram	97	13	84
19	Nagaland	379	84	295
20	Orissa	4394	1259	3135
21	Punjab	4134	4086	48
22	Rajasthan	18034	7122	10912
23	Sikkim	77	14	63
24	Tamil Nadu	4986	2964	2022
25	Tripura	256	60	196
26	Uttarakhand	714	339	375
27	Uttar Pradesh	16623	13411	3212
28	West Bengal	5198	3078	2120
29	A & N Island	15	0	15
30	Chandigarh	1	1	0
31	D&N Haveli	17	4	13
32	Daman & Diu	3	0	3
33	Delhi	22	22	0
34	Lakshadweep	2	0	2

182

--- Page 184 ---

35 Pondicherry 18 15 3
Total 140800 65266 75534
Source: Agriculture Statistics at a Glance June, 2014, Directorate of Economics & Statistic, Ministry of Agriculture
183

--- Page 185 ---

Appendix-
b Illustrative Activities under PMKSY (Refer to Para 4.0 of the Guidelines)

Sl. No.  
1
2.

Programme Components
AIBP
PMKSY (Har Khetko Pani)

Illustrative Activities
• To focus on faster completion of ongoing Majorand Medium Irrigation including National Projects
• Creation of new water sources through Minor Irrigation (both surface and ground water)
• Repair, restoration and renovation of water bodies; strengthening carrying capacity of traditional water sources, construction rain water harvesting structures (Jal Sanchay);
• Command area development, strengthening and creation of distribution network from source to the farm;
• Improvement in water management and distribution system for water bodies to take advantage of the available source which is not tapped to its fullest capacity (deriving benefits from low hanging fruits). At least 10% of the command area to be covered under micro/precision irrigation.
• Diversion of water from source of different location where it is plenty to nearby water scarce areas, lift irrigation from water bodies/rivers at lower elevation to supplement requirements beyond IWMP and MGNREGS irrespective of irrigation command.
• Creation and rejuvenation of traditional water storage systems like Jal Mandir (Gujarat); Khatri, Kuhl (H.P.); Zabo (Nagaland); Eri, Ooranis (T.N.); Dongs (Assam); Katas, Bandhas (Odisha and M.P.) etc. at feasible locations.

3
PMKSY (Watershed)

• Water harvesting structures such as check dams, nala bund, farm ponds, tanks etc.
• Capacity building, entry point activities, ridge area treatment, drainage line treatment, soil and moisture conservation, nursery raising, afforestation, horticulture, pasture development, livelihood activities for the asset-less persons

--- Page 186 ---

and production system & micro enterprises for small and marginal farmers etc.
• Effective rainfall management like field bunding, contour bunding/trenching, staggered trenching, land levelling, mulching etc.

185

--- Page 187 ---

4 PMKSY(Per dropmore crop)
• Programme management, preparation of State/District Irrigation Plan, approval of annual action plan, Monitoring etc. 
• Promoting efficient water conveyance and precision water application devices like drips, sprinklers, pivots, rain-guns in the farm (Jal Sinchan); 
• Topping up of input cost particularly under civil construction beyond permissible limit (40%), under MGNREGS for activities like lining inlet, outlet, silt traps, distribution system etc. 
• Construction of micro irrigation structures to supplement source creation activities including tube wells and dug wells (in areas where ground water is available and not under semi critical /critical /over exploited category of development) which are not supported under PMKSY (WR), PMKSY (Watershed) and MGNREGS. 
• Secondary storage structures at tail end of canal system to store water when available in abundance (rainy season) or from perennial sources like streams for use during dry periods through effective on-farm water management; 
• Water lifting devices like diesel/ electric/ solar pumpsets including water carriage pipes. 
• Extension activities for promotion of scientific moisture conservation and agronomic measures including cropping alignment to maximise use of available water including rainfall and minimise irrigation requirement (Jal sarankchan); 
• Capacity building, training for encouraging 

186

--- Page 188 ---

potential use water source through technological, agronomic and management practices including community irrigation.
• Awareness campaign on water saving technologies, practices, programmes etc.,

187

--- Page 189 ---

organisation of workshops, conferences, publication of booklets, pamphlets, success stories, documentary, advertisements etc.
Improved/innovative distribution system like pipe and box outlet system with controlled outlet and other activities of enhancing water use efficiency
5 MGNREGA 
Water harvesting structures on individual lands of vulnerable sections, creation of new irrigation sources, upgradation/desilting of traditional water bodies, water conservation works etc.
Supplementing soil and water conservation works in the identified back ward rainfed blocks by overlaying of the plans with that of watershed projects for development to full potential
Desiltation of canal & distribution system, Deepening and desiltation of existing water bodies, strengthening of bunds/embankmentsetc.
Restoring the potential of traditional water storage systems like Jal Mandir; Khatri, Kuhl, Zabo, Ooranis ,Dongs , Katas, Bandhas etc. through disiltation and deepening activities
188

--- Page 190 ---

TABLE OF CONTENTS
Appendix-c
Table 7.19 Recommended norms of treated
sewage quality for specified activities at point of use
Parameter
1. Turbidity (NTU)
2 TSS
3 TDS
4 pH
5 Oil & Grease mg 1
6 Temperature °C
7 Chlorine Residual
8 Total Kieldahl Nitrogen
9 BOD
10 COD
11 Dissolved Phosphorous
12 Nitrate Nitrogen as N
13 Faecal Coliform
14 Total Coliform
15 Helminthic Eggs / litre
16 Odour
Vehicle
Cleaning
<2
ml
<
ml
Toilet
flushing
<2
ml
mil
10
1
<2
ml
Fire 
<2
ml
mil
mil
2
Non-contact 
wasting
mil
mil
mil
1
Horticulture
of coarse
crops
<2
ml
mil
10
mil
mil
mil
1
mil
10
10
10
10
10
20
5
10
20
30
30
AA
AA
1
5
AA
30
30
10
mil
mil
mil
10
AA
10
mil
1070
6.5 to 8.3
Ambient
AA
10
1
1
10
AA
10
AA
10
2
1
2
NIL
NIL
- Ambient
2
2
230
5
10
NIL
5
10
230
5
5
10
- Ambient
5
Volume
requirements
Colourless
Aspectic** Colourless
Aspectic** Colourless
Aspectic** Colourless
Aspectic** Colourless
Aspectic** Colourless
Aspectic** Colourless
Aspectic**
which means that other parameters met. * is allowable when regular ** Junge when other parameters are satisfied. A tolerance of plus minus is allowable when yearly average
189

--- Page 191 ---

STATE SPONSORED SCHEME
(HORTICULTURE)

1. Input Subsidy: 
The Scheme aims at backyard plantation through supply of Subsidised quality planting materials to help the farmers who require very small quantity of planting material for their backyard or scattered planting in their small patch of land. Maximum 10 nos of plant will be provided to a beneficiary at subsidised cost. During 2020-21, 75000 Mango grafts and 289583 nos. of Coconut seedlings have distributed to FANI affected farmers of Puri, Khordha, Cuttack, Jajpur, Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada, Dhenkanal and Nayagarh districts. and Distribution of Vegetable Minikits to 1,00,000 nos. of farm families, Supply of Mixed Fruit Plants for Backyard Plantation to 75000 farm families and for Renovation Support of Mushroom Unit to 10,000 Mushroom cultivators of the Flood affected districts with financial expenditure of Rs. 5.00 Crore. There is Budget provision of Rs. 10.00 Crore during 2021-22.

2. Implementation of Horticulture Programme in Non- Horticulture Mission District:
National Horticulture Mission is in implementation in 24 districts for all components. All components of National Horticulture Mission except Area Expansion Programme are left in 6 districts. Hence to encourage the Horticulture programme under Area Expansion in Fruits, Flowers, Vegetables etc., the assistance is being provided from State budget as per the NHM guidelines. During 2020-21, 1140.4 ha. has achieved under horticulture crop like Mango, Papaya, TC Banana plantation, Hybrid Vegetable cultivation and Flower cultivation with financial outlay of Rs. 1.60 Crore. There is Budget provision of Rs. 3.00 Crore During 2021-22.

3. Development of Potato, Spices & Vegetables:
The scheme was introduced in 2007-08 to increase the production of Potato Vegetable & Spices in the State. The main objectives are to supply the seed potatoes, vegetable seeds and quality planting materials of spices to the farmers of the State at a subsidized rate. From 2020-21, the financial assistance of Rs. 58,000 per ha. is being provided to the farmers for area expansion programme of Potato and Onion. During 2020-21, 83.91ha. of Potato and 1208 ha of Onion cultivation have achieved with a financial outlay of Rs. 749.30 Lakh. There is Budget provision of Rs. 65.00 Crore During 2021-22.

4. State Potato Mission:
The scheme aims to provide subsidy towards the electricity tariff of Cold Storages. During 2020-21, the financial achievement of Rs. 1.00 Crore and during 2021-22, the Budget provision of Rs. 3.00 Crore is there.

--- Page 192 ---

MODALITIES FOR POTATO CULTIVATION DURING KHARIF 2021 IN KORAPUT AND KANDHAMAL DISTRICTS

1. Potential farmers will be selected giving due importance for cluster cultivation of Potato with due representation of SC & ST under the Scheme Dev. of Potato, Vegetable and Spices.
2. One farmer cultivating minimum area of 0.10 Ha. of Potato is eligible to avail subsidy under the scheme and maximum area for availing subsidy is limited to 1.0 Ha.

3. The individual farmer has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for availing the subsidy in the prescribed application form (copy enclosed as Annexure - I) along with the Id proof, Land and Bank A/c details.
4. The verification with respect to the eligibility and land suitability to be certified by the AHO of concerned Block along with the identification of the farmer by Gardner / HEW / HO.
5. The maximum allowable subsidy is Rs. 58,000/- per Ha. @ 40% of total cost of cultivation of Rs. 1, 45, 000/- (copy enclosed as Annexure - II).

6. The subsidy will be allowed in two phases as Seed Potato subsidy and after 1st earthing up as planting care subsidy. The Potato seed subsidy is Rs. 43,875/- per Ha. Irrespective of the variety procured and the source of procurement. This amount will be paid to the supplier by the DDH/ADH after receipt of the Bill from the supplier with due authentication by the farmer towards receipt of the planting material by the farmer in the Challan. The differential amount beyond the seed subsidy shall be collected from the farmers by the supplier at his own risk.

7. After one month of planting of Seed Potato, Rs. 14,125/- per Ha. will be released to the beneficiaries after taking the Geo enabled photograph and submission of completion report (copy enclosed as Annexure - III) to avail final subsidy.

8. The Govt. share of Rs. 58,000/- per Ha. will be met out of allotment provided in the Development of Potato Vegetable and Spices Scheme under State Plan. 

9. The Seed Potato will be procured by the farmers from any of the empanelled supplier after confirming the status of approval for cultivation of Potato. The Officials of the 

191

--- Page 193 ---

Directorate will coordinate and supervise the Seed supply position and intimate the Directorate on daily basis.

10. The DDH/ADH has to release the dues towards the cost of Seed Potato to the Supplier within one month from the date receipt of the Invoice from the supplier with the detailed list of farmer out of the approved list communicated by the DDH/ADH.

11. The empanelled Suppliers will ensure supply of Seed Potato to the approved farmers only in consultation with the DDH / ADH.
12. In the event of the quality complaint received from the farmer regarding the rottage beyond permissible limit at the time of receipt shall be immediately brought to the notice of the Director of Horticulture, Odisha under intimation to the Supplier. Besides the DDH / ADH (Head of the District) shall immediately form a committee involving one KVK Scientist and verify the quality complaint.

13. The Seed Potato shall be supplied by the suppliers only after the receipt of the farmer share.
14. The HO/AHO will verify 100% , ADH will verify at least 25% and DDH will verify at least 10% of the beneficiary before the release of subsidy.

15. The joint crop cutting report should be recorded by the AHO Concerned alongwith the in presence of the Agriculture Officials / PRI members.

16. A copy of the approved final beneficiary list in book form & a soft copy should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail to ahorkvy@gmail.com after harvesting is over.

| Distric t | DDH/ADH | Block | Suppl y of Seed Potat o in Qntl. | Area Covere d (in Ha.) | Avera ge Yield per Ha. | No. of beneficiary |
| ST | SC | OC | W | Tota l |

17. Care should be taken to link the farmers for sale of the produce at higher prices.

                                                                           192

--- Page 194 ---

Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar

MODALITIES FOR POTATO CULTIVATION IN CONVERGENCE WITH THE RKVY PROJECT SUSTAINABLE INTENSIFICATION OF POTATO FOR ACHIEVING SELF-SUFFICIENCY IN ODISHA DURING KHARIF

1. The farmers shall be selected for potato cultivation over 600Ha under the Small Farmers’ Large Field (SFLF) model by the International Potato Centre (CIP).

2. The maximum area for availing subsidy is limited to 1.0 Ha in the convergence mode.

3. The individual farmer has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned through CIP officials for availing the subsidy in the prescribed application form (copy enclosed as Annexure - I) along with Id proof, Land and Bank A/c details.

4. The verification with respect to eligibility to be certified by the CIP officials.

5. In case of State Plan Scheme Development of Potato, Vegetables and Spices the allowable subsidy is Rs.58,000/- per ha.

6. The total financial support to be extended to the farmers under RKVY project implemented by this Directorate through CIP is Rs.28231/- per Ha.

7. In order to equalize the subsidy for both the schemes, the convergence of State Plan Scheme Development of Potato, Vegetables and Spices shall be made with RKVY project Sustainable Intensification of Potato for achieving Self-sufficiency in Odisha.

8. The differential subsidy out of Point No. 5 and 6 i.e.Rs.29679/- per Ha shall be paid for the RKVY project out of State Plan Scheme Development of Potato, Vegetables and Spices for potato cultivation in an area of 600 Ha.

9. Out of Rs.29679/-, the seed subsidy shall be Rs.24375/-per Ha and the Planting Care subsidy shall be Rs.5394/-released on being recommended by CIP after 1st earthing up on submission of Completion Report (copy enclosed as Annexure - III) alongwith Geo enabled photograph.

10. The Seed Potato supply shall be facilitated by the CIP under the RKVY project. The Officials of the Directorate will coordinate and supervise the programme jointly.

11. The DDH/ADH has to release the dues towards the seed subsidy @ Rs.24375/- per Ha to the Supplier out of State Plan Scheme Development of Potato, Vegetables and Spices in the convergence programme within 15days from the date receipt of the

--- Page 195 ---

Invoice. The amount due should be recommended by the CIP along with submission of Challans and Invoice received from the authentic Seed Potato Supplier.
12. The Planting Care subsidy of Rs.5394/- shall be released after 1st earthing up on submission of Completion Report (copy enclosed as Annexure - III) alongwith Geo enabled photograph
13. The joint crop cutting report should be recorded by the AHO Concerned alongwith the CIP Officials and PRI members.
14. A copy of the approved final beneficiary list of convergence programme in book form & a soft copy should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail to ahorkvy@gmail.com after harvesting is over.

| Distric t | DDH/A DH | Block | Suppl y of Seed Potat o in Qntl. | Area Covere d (in Ha.) | Avera ge Yield per Ha. | No. of beneficiary | ST | SC | OC | W | Tota l |

15. Care should be taken jointly by the DDH/ADH and CIP officials to link the farmers for sale of the produce at higher prices.

Director of Horticulture,
Odisha, Bhubaneswar

MODALITIES FOR POTATO DEMONSTRATION DURING KHARIF

1. The farmers having suitable land will be selected for cultivation of Kharif Potato giving due importance for cluster cultivation with due representation of SC & ST under the Scheme Dev. of Potato, Vegetable and Spices.
2. Each unit of demonstration of Kharif potato is 0.10 Ha. One farmer is eligible for one unit only.

--- Page 196 ---

3. The selected farmer has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for taking up the demonstration in the prescribed application form (copy enclosed) along with the Id proof, , Land details and willingness to follow the package of practices as per guideline and to engage the labour at own cost and any extra input (if needed )beyond the inputs supplied under the programme.
4. The verification with respect to the willingness and land suitability to be certified by the AHO of concerned Block along with the identification of the farmer by Gardner / HEW / HO.
5. The maximum allowable input support per unit of 0.10 Ha is Rs. 7,500/- (copy enclosed).
6. The seed potato will be procured by the DDH/ADH from the L-1 empanelled supplier as the district wise supplier allotted and cost to be paid to the supplier within 15 days of receipt of Invoice.
   The other critical inputs will be supplied to the farmers by procuring them as per the latest guidelines in force at the time of implementation. The inputs for pest and disease management have to procured for preventive as well as control measure as and when needed.
7. The supplier will supply the Seed Potato at the cluster level in consultation with the block level officials.
8. The DDH/ADH has to release the dues towards the cost of Seed Potato after maintaining the necessary records and registers.
9. The L-1 empanelled Suppliers will ensure supply of Seed Potato to the selected farmers timely after receiving the firm indents from the DDH / ADH.
10. The regular monitoring and supervision to be carried out by block level/ sub-divisional level /district level officials.
11. The HO/AHO will verify 100% , ADH will verify at least 25% and DDH will verify at least 10% of the beneficiary before the release of subsidy.
12. Joint crop cutting report should be recorded by the AHO Concerned alongwith the 

--- Page 197 ---

the Agriculture Officials / PRI members.

13. A copy of the approved final beneficiary list in book form & a soft copy should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail to ahorkvy@gmail.com after harvesting is over.

District

DDH/ ADH

Block

Supply of Seed Potato in Qntl.

Area Covered (in Ha.)

Average Yield per Ha.

No. of beneficiary

ST

SC

OC

W

Total

14. Care should be taken by the DDH/ADH to have documentation at the cluster level.

Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar.

MODALITIES FOR ONION CULTIVATION DURING KHARIF

1. Farmers will be selected giving due importance for cluster cultivation of Onion with due representation of SC & ST under the Scheme Dev. of Potato, Vegetable and Spices.
2. One farmer cultivating minimum area of 0.10 Ha. of Onion is eligible to avail subsidy under the scheme and maximum area for availing subsidy is limited to 1.0 Ha.
3. The individual farmer has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for availing the subsidy in the prescribed application form (copy enclosed as Annexure - I) along with the Id proof, Land and Bank A/c details.
4. The verification with respect to the eligibility and land suitability to be certified by the AHO of concerned Block along with the identification of the farmer by Gardner / HEW / HO.
5. The maximum allowable subsidy is Rs. 58,000/- per Ha. @ 40% of total cost of cultivation of Rs. 1, 45, 000/- (copy enclosed as Annexure - II).
6. The subsidy will be allowed in two phases as Seed subsidy and after 15 days of planting the rest amount will be released as planting care subsidy. The Onion seed subsidy is Rs. 18,750/- per Ha. irrespective of the variety procured and the source

196

--- Page 198 ---

of procurement. This amount will be paid to the supplier by the DDH/ADH after receipt of the Bill from the supplier with due authentication by the farmer towards receipt of the Onion seed by the farmer in the Challan. The differential amount beyond the seed subsidy shall be collected from the farmers by the supplier at his own risk. 
7. After 15 days of planting of Onion Seedling, Rs. 39,250/- per Ha. will be released to the beneficiaries after taking the Geo enabled photograph and submission of completion report (copy enclosed as Annexure - III) to avail final subsidy. 
8. The Govt. share of Rs. 58,000/- per Ha. will be met out of allotment provided in the Development of Potato Vegetable and Spices Scheme under State Plan. 
9. The Onion seed will be procured by the farmers from any of the empanelled supplier after confirming the status of approval for cultivation of Onion. The Officials of the Directorate will coordinate and supervise the Seed supply position and intimate the Directorate on daily basis. 
10. The DDH/ADH has to release the dues towards the cost of Onion Seed to the Supplier within one month from the date receipt of the Invoice from the supplier with the detailed list of farmer out of the approved list communicated by the DDH/ADH. 
11. The empanelled Suppliers will ensure supply of Onion Seed to the approved farmers only in consultation with the DDH / ADH. 
12. In the event of the quality complaint received from the farmer regarding the poor germination beyond permissible limit shall be immediately brought to the notice of the Director of Horticulture, Odisha by the DDH/ADH under intimation to the Supplier. Besides the DDH / ADH (Head of the District) shall immediately form a committee involving one KVK Scientist and verify the quality complaint. 
13. The Onion Seed shall be supplied by the suppliers only after the receipt of the farmer share. 
14. The HO/AHO will verify 100% , ADH will verify at least 25% and DDH will verify at least 10% of the beneficiary before the release of subsidy. 
15. The joint crop cutting report should be recorded by the AHO Concerned along with the in presence of the Agriculture Officials / PRI members. 
16. A copy of the approved final beneficiary list in book form & a soft copy should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail to ahorkvy@gmail.com after harvesting is over. 
Distric | DDH/ | Block | Suppl | Area | Avera | No. of beneficiary

197

--- Page 199 ---

t ADH y of Onion Seed in Kg. Covere d (in Ha.) ge Yield per Ha. ST SC OC W Tota I

17. Care should be taken to link the farmers for sale of the produce at higher prices.

Director of Horticulture,
Odisha, Bhubaneswar

OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR AVAILING ELECTRICITY TARIFF SUBSIDY UNDER THE STATE POTATO MISSION

In order to promote the establishment of cold stores in the State as well as to encourage the potato cultivation in the catchment of functional cold stores & also to ensure sustainability & viability of functional cold stores in the State, subsidy on electricity tariff will be provided under the State Potato Mission @ 50% / annum to the functional cold stores for storage of Agricultural & Horticultural Produces for 3 years from 2021-22 to 2023-24. This will be applicable to all the existing and running cold stores from the date of issue of these operational guidelines.

1. The process :

1.1 The cold store owner has to submit the required documents in support of the ownership of the cold store as will be required by the Directorate of Horticulture or his authorized representatives.

1.2 The entrepreneur / cold store owner has to apply in the prescribed format to the Assistant Director of Horticulture / Deputy Director of Horticulture, as the case may be, to avail of the subsidy.

1.3 The subsidy shall be disbursed to the cold store owner’s account only after following the procedure outlined in the following paras. The accounts should be seeded with the AADHAAR number.

2. Eligibility of cold store :

198

--- Page 200 ---

2.1 The existing functional cold stores in both the public and private sectors will be entitled to get the electricity tariff subsidy.

2.2 Only cold stores of 500 MT and above will be eligible for availing of the tariff subsidy. It has to be temperature-controlled storage where flowers, fruits, vegetables & other Agricultural & Horticultural produces can be kept fresh or frozen until it is needed.

2.3 The cold storages utilizing their installed capacity by storing potato either by purchasing potato/ seed potato or by effecting a contract/agreement / MOU with FIGs, FPOs and individual farmers of the State for keeping their products will be eligible for availing subsidy on electricity tariff.

2.4 The cold store owner has to make separate electricity connectivity for the cold store basing on which electricity tariff subsidy will be disbursed. Separate connectivity has to be made for the office, residential and other non-cold store activities.

2.5 The cold store owner shall be eligible for tariff subsidy only if he has paid all the electricity dues including the arrear amount if any.

2.6 The cold store owner shall provide storage facility to the farmers/ FPOs of Odisha, who are producing potato, agricultural and horticultural produce, otherwise, payment of electricity tariff subsidy will be stopped immediately and the recovery process will be initiated.

3. Inspection of the cold store:

3.1 A case record will be opened in the office of ADH / DDH for every cold store with details as will be required by the Directorate of Horticulture.

3.2 Cold store owners are to be informed regarding separate stacking of produces in a scientific manner for easy assessment.

3.3 The Inspection Team, to be constituted by DDH/ADH, will comprise of the following:- 

i. Assistant Director of Horticulture / Assistant Horticulture Officer

ii. Assistant Agriculture Officer

iii. Inspector of Supplies / Marketing Inspector of FS & CW Department.

iv. Two farmer representatives from Governing Board of ATMA or the District Mission Committee of NHM to be rotated every quarter.

3.4 The Inspection Teams will verify all the cold stores throughout the State on a fixed day of the month as notified by the Director of Horticulture. If the fixed day

--- Page 201 ---

is a public holiday, the inspection will be taken up on the next working day. In case of the absence of any member of the team, his representative will be treated as a part of the team.
3.5 The Inspection Team will take photographs with GPS enabled camera with date and time and both hard and soft copies of the photographs will be kept in the case record. In the case of a multi-chambered cold store, GPS photographs of each chamber of the cold store will be taken.
3.6 5% supervisory check will be carried out every month by the Special Teams to be constituted by the Director of Horticulture, Odisha in such a manner that each cold store will be inspected at least once during a financial year. The supervisory inspection will be of a surprising nature. If any lapses are found during the supervisory inspection or otherwise and it is found that the cold store owner has illegally availed the subsidy or the owner was not eligible to avail the subsidy, he will be liable to pay back the entire subsidy amount, failing which the entire subsidy amount disbursed to him shall be recovered under the provisions of OPDR Act, and the entrepreneur will be debarred from availing any further electricity tariff subsidy.
3.7 The electricity tariff subsidy will be provided for the period (in terms of months) of storage of Agricultural & Horticultural produces.
3.8 The bills generated by the Electricity Distribution Company towards the electricity consumption of the cold store will be kept in the office of ADH / DDH for the record.
3.9 The cold store owner has to submit the proof of payment of the bill of the last month for being eligible to avail of the electricity tariff subsidy.

4. Monitoring and Supervision :

4.1 A Committee will be formed at the district level comprising of the following to monitor the implementation of the programme:-
1.
1. Collector & District Magistrate or his representative not below the rank of ADM.
2. DDH / ADH– Convenor
3. DDA of the district
4. District Civil Supplies Officer
5. Representatives of Electricity Distribution Company
4.2 The Committee can also inspect the cold stores as and when required for effective implementation of the Scheme.

200

--- Page 202 ---

4.3 The programme will be monitored by the Directorate Level Implementation and Monitoring Committee at regular intervals.

5. Fund management :
5.1 Funds will be made available to the DDH / ADH based on the assessment of the capacity of the running cold stores utilized for storing Agricultural & Horticultural produces under their jurisdiction.
5.2 The cold store entrepreneur has to apply in the prescribed format every month along with a self-attested copy of the electricity bill and the proof of the payment of the Bill.
5.3 He has also to give an affidavit that he has raised the bill for the electricity dues for Agricultural & Horticultural produces as required under the scheme and not for any other purpose.
5.4 The subsidy will be paid on the actual consumption of electricity based on monthly electricity bills for a period of 3 years w.e.f. issue of these Operational Guidelines. The subsidy will be allowed only on the current charges payable on or before the due date which will include demand charges, electricity duty, meter rent, other miscellaneous charges etc. but shall not include arrear amount, penalty, late fee etc. The electricity tariff subsidy at the rate of 50 % will be disbursed for 3 years up to 2023-24 for the actual period of storage of Agricultural & Horticultural produces.
5.5 All existing running cold stores should apply in the first fortnight of April and these cold stores will be inspected by 30th April of every year, so that tariff subsidy is made available to them w.e.f. 01st June of every year. The cold stores to be set up after issue of the operational guideline, must file their claims for availing tariff subsidy with one week of the establishment of the cold stores and the subsidy will be admissible to it from the month succeeding the application. If a cold store owner does not claim tariff subsidy within the period stipulated for it (i.e. in the first fortnight of April of every year or within 1 week of it becoming operational), then the subsidy for the lost period will not be paid to him. He will, however, be eligible to claim subsidy for the remaining part of 3 years period at the rates applicable for the remaining period.
5.6 The subsidy will be released directly into the bank accounts of the cold store owners.
5.7 DDH /ADH shall furnish the UC for the expenditure incurred at the end of each financial year.

OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES UNDER THE SCHEME DEVLOPMENT OF POTATO, VEGETABLE AND SPICES FOR EXECUTION DURING KHARIF 2021

A. AREA EXPANSION OF POTATO IN KORAPUT AND KANDHAMAL DISTRICTS

201

--- Page 203 ---

I. Selection of Farmers :
a. Potential farmers will be selected giving due importance for cluster cultivation of Potato with due representation of SC & ST under the Scheme Dev. of Potato, Vegetable and Spices.
b. One farmer cultivating minimum area of 0.10 Ha. of Potato is eligible to avail subsidy under the scheme and maximum area for availing subsidy is limited to 1.0 Ha.
c. The individual farmer has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for availing the subsidy in the prescribed application form (copy enclosed as Annexure - I) along with the Id proof, Land and Bank A/c details.
d. The verification with respect to the eligibility and land suitability to be certified by the AHO of concerned Block along with the identification of the farmer by Gardner / HEW / HO.

II. Subsidy Pattern :
a. The maximum allowable subsidy is Rs. 58,000/- per Ha. @ 40% of total cost of cultivation of Rs. 1, 45, 000/- (copy enclosed as Annexure - III).
b. The subsidy will be allowed in two phases as Seed Subsidy and after 1st earthing up as Planting Care Subsidy.
c. The Seed Subsidy is Rs. 43,875/- per Ha. irrespective of the variety procured and the source of procurement and shall be released to the suppliers on authentication by the farmer.
d. The Planting Care Subsidy is Rs. 14,125/- per Ha. and is to be released to the farmers after first earthing up i.e after 21days of planting of Seed Potato.
e. The subsidy will be released out of the allotted funds of Rs. 58,000/- per Ha. in the Scheme Development of Potato Vegetable and Spices under State Plan.

III. Verification and Procurement of Seed Potato :

a. The list of empanelled supplier alongwith the variety wise rate quoted and willingness to supply the quantity is as follows.

Sl.No   Name of the Bidder   Variety   Rate per QtI.   Willingness Offered for Quantity to sell
01   Sukhjit Singh Bhatti, 136, K.   Jyoti   Rs. 3900/-   300 MT

202

--- Page 204 ---

Bhatti House, Ravindranagar Po- Model Town, Dist – Jalandhar, Punjab (144003) Mobile: 9814060561

(CS/G3/G4)

(L1)

02 Prasad Seeds Pvt. Ltd. SY No. 77 Part, 78 Part, Kodakandla (Village), Gajwel (Mandol) ,Sidhipet – 502312, Telangana, Mobile: 9866012034

K. Jyoti (CS)

Rs. 3900/- (L1)

500 MT

K. Himalini (CS)

Rs. 4600/-

100 MT

03 NHRDF , Regional Research Station, Paljhar, Boudh, Mobile: 9415575819, 7827946625

K. Jyoti (CS)

Rs. 4500/-

250 MT

K. Khyati (CS)

Rs. 4500/-

8 MT

K. Chipsona - 1 (CS)

Rs. 4500/-

9MT

K. Chipsona - 3 (CS)

Rs. 4500/-

20MT

K. Pukhraj (CS)

Rs. 4500

420MT

04 Agri Vision Garasahi, Baliapal, Via- Singla, Dist – Balasore , 756023, Mobile:7008453848

K. Jyoti (G3 & G4)

Rs. 4000/-

450 MT

K. Himalini (G3 & G4)

Rs. 4600/-

100 M T

b. Quality & purity of seed potato is the sole responsibility of the empanelled seed supplying agency as in Point No. III (a) (size of the tuber: 25mm to 45 mm; varietal mix should not be more than 0.1%; cut, bruised, unshapy, cracked tubers or those damaged by insects, slugs or worms shall not exceed more than 1% by weight).
c. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation, the verification of the Seed Potato at the source point shall not be conducted. However, the suppliers have to get it verified at the delivery point for each lot prior to selling of Seed Potato to the farmers. The verification Committee will be comprised of DDH/ADH, KVK Scientist and AHO of the concerned Block.
d. Seed Potato will be procured by the farmers from any of the empanelled supplier as in Point No. III (a) after confirming the status of approval made by DDH / ADH for cultivation of Potato. The Officials of the District / Sub-Division / Block will coordinate and supervise the Seed supply position and intimate this Directorate regarding the sale position of Seed Potato on daily basis.
e. The empanelled Suppliers will ensure supply of Seed Potato to the approved farmers only in consultation with the DDH / ADH.
f. The Seed Potato shall be supplied by the suppliers only after the receipt of the 

203

--- Page 205 ---

farmer share.

IV. Release of Subsidy :
a. The DDH/ADH has to release the Seed Subsidy to the Supplier within one month from the date receipt of the Invoice from the supplier with the detailed list of farmers out of the approved list communicated by the DDH/ADH. 
b. For release of Seed Subsidy to the supplier by the DDH/ADH, the supplying agencies have to submit the authentication of the farmer towards receipt of the planting material in the Challan / Invoice. 
c. Planting Care Subsidy will be released to the farmers after taking the Geo enabled photograph and submission of completion report (copy enclosed as Annexure - III) to avail final subsidy.

V. Verification, Reporting and Documentation :
a. The HO/AHO will verify 100%, ADH will verify at least 25% and DDH will verify at least 10% of the beneficiary before the release of subsidy. 
b. The joint crop cutting report should be recorded by the AHO Concerned alongwith the Agriculture Officials / PRI members. 
c. A copy of the approved final beneficiary list in book form & a soft copy should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail to ahorkvy@gmail.com after harvesting is over. 

| Distric t | DDH/ ADH | Block | Suppl y of Seed Potat o in Qntl. | Area Covere d (in Ha.) | Avera ge Yield per Ha. | No. of beneficiary | ST | SC | OC | W | Tota l |

d. Care should be taken to link the farmers for sale of the produce at higher prices. 
VI. Time Line for different activities to be under taken for Potato cultivation :
 Name of the Activities | Tentative Date Line | Remarks 
 Selection of Farmers | 1st Week of June, 2021 | Cluster Approach to be emphasized. 
 Land preparation by the farmers | 2nd Week of June, 2021 | The farmers are to be advised for adding FYM during land preparation. 
 Indent of Seed Potato to be placed by DDH/ADH with the Supplying Agency. | 2nd Week of June, 2021 |

204

--- Page 206 ---

Arrival of Seed Potato
3rd to 4th Week of June, 2021

Sale of Seed Potato to the farmers
1st Week of July, 2021

Final land preparation and preparation of ridge and furrows
1st Week of July, 2021

Completion of Planting
2nd Week of July, 2021
To be planted looking at dry spell period

1st Weeding, Hoeing and Earthing Up
1st Week of August, 2021

2nd earthing up and top dressing
4th Week of August, 2021

Disease and Pest Management
To be advised as and when required during the Crop period.

Harvesting & Marketing
After 2nd Week of October, 2021

Submission of Beneficiary List and Crop Cropping Report
4th Week of October, 2021

205

--- Page 207 ---

Model Estimate for cultivation of 1 Ha. of Potato (Solanum tuberosum)  
Unskilled Labour Charge : Rs. 303.40/MD

Sl.No | Components of Cost | Unit | Plant Density : 90000 | Spacing: 45 cm x 22.5 cm  
Nos | Rate (Rs.) | Cost (Rs.)

A. LABOUR  
1 | Tractor Ploughing / Pit/Trench making | Hrs | 5 | 1000 | 5000  
2 | Bullock plough for sowing | Days | 4 | 400 | 1600  
3 | Cleaning field and bunds | MD | 5 | 303.4 | 1517  
4 | Application of Compost & Basal fertilizer | MD | 10 | 303.4 | 3034  
5 | Seed material treatment | MD | 10 | 303.4 | 3034  
6 | Planting | MD | 25 | 303.4 | 7585  
7 | Irrigation (Need based) | MD | 15 | 303.4 | 4551  
8 | Intercultural operation (hoeing, weeding, earthing up, etc.) | MD | 50 | 303.4 | 15170  
9 | Application of PP chemicals | MD | 5 | 303.4 | 1517  
10 | Application of fertilizer & micronutrients | MD | 10 | 303.4 | 3034  
11 | Harvesting & Post harvest handling | MD | 75 | 303.4 | 22755  
SUB TOTAL - A | MD | 205 | 68797

B. INPUTS  
1 | Cost of Seed materials | Qtl. | 15 | 3000 | 45000  
2 | Seed treating chemicals | LS | 1000  
3 | Manure / Compost | MT | 10 | 1200 | 12000  
4 | Biofertilizers (Azotobactor + PSB) | Kg | 10 | 80 | 800  
Fertilizer  
5 | Nitrogen | Kg | 150 | 12.37 | 1856  
Phosphorus | Kg | 80 | 47.8 | 3824  
Potassium | Kg | 100 | 27 | 2700  
6 | Micronutrients | Kg | 3 | 250 | 750  
7 | PP Chemicals | Nos | LS | 500  
8 | Irrigation Charges | Hrs | 35 | 75 | 2625  
SUB TOTAL - B | 75555  
Miscellaneous / Contingency @ 2% approximately. | 648  
GRAND TOTAL | 145000  

(Rupees One Lakh Forty five thousand) only.

Dr. Ashok ... Mishra, Professor & OIC, AICRP on Potato, OUAT  
Dr. Pradyumna Tripathy, Prof. of Veg. Science, OUAT  
Miss Shibani Deo, Accounts Officer O/o-DH(O)  
Dr. P.K. Bhanja, ADH (Policy) O/o-DH(O)  
Er. Jyoti Prakash Ray, AEE, Refrigeration, O/o-DH(O)  
Sri Chitta Ranjan Sahoo, AHO (RKVY) O/o-DH(O)  

// Approved //

Sri N.K. Tad, Joint Director of Horticulture  
Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar  

206

--- Page 208 ---

B. POTATO DEMONSTRATION DURING KHARIF

I. Selection of Farmers
a. The farmers having suitable land will be selected for cultivation of Kharif Potato giving due importance for cluster cultivation with due representation of SC & ST under the Scheme Dev. of Potato, Vegetable and Spices.
b. Each unit of demonstration of Kharif potato is 0.10 Ha. One farmer is eligible for one unit only.
c. The selected farmer has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for taking up the demonstration in the prescribed application form (copy enclosed) along with the Id proof, Land details and willingness to follow the package of practices as per guideline and to engage the labour at own cost and any extra input (if needed) beyond the inputs supplied under the programme.
d. The verification with respect to the willingness and land suitability to be certified by the AHO of concerned Block along with the identification of the farmer by Gardner / HEW / HO.
e. The seed potato will be procured by the DDH/ADH from the L-1 empanelled supplier as the district wise supplier allotted and cost to be paid to the supplier within 15 days of receipt of Invoice.

II. Pattern of Input Assistance
a. The maximum allowable input support per unit of 0.10 Ha is Rs. 7,500/- (copy enclosed as Annexure - IV).

III. Procurement of Seed Potato and other inputs
a. The Seed Potato will be procured from any L1 Supplier as per Point – III (a) of this Operational Guidelines and the supplier will be asked to supply the Seed Potato at the Cluster level in consultation with the Block level officials.
b. The other critical inputs will be supplied to the farmers by procuring them as per the latest guidelines in force at the time of implementation. The inputs for pest and disease management have to procured for preventive as well as control measure as and when needed.
c. The payment to the supplier of Seed Potato and other inputs will be made by the DDH / ADH following due financial procedure out of the allotted

207

--- Page 209 ---

funds under the scheme Dev. Potato, Vegetable and Spices.
IV. Verification, Reporting and Documentation

a. The regular monitoring and supervision to be carried out by block level/sub-divisional level/district level officials.
b. The HO/AHO will verify 100%, ADH will verify at least 25% and DDH will verify at least 10% of the beneficiary before the release of subsidy.
c. Joint crop cutting report should be recorded by the AHO Concerned alongwith the the Agriculture Officials / PRI members.
d. A copy of the approved final beneficiary list in book form & a soft copy should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail to ahorkvy@gmail.com after harvesting is over.

Distric t

DDH/ADH

Block

Suppl y of Seed Potat o in Qntl.

Area Covere d (in Ha.)

Avera ge Yield per Ha.

No. of beneficiary

ST

SC

OC

W

Tota l

e. Care should be taken by the DDH/ADH to have documentation at the cluster level.

V. Time Line for different activities to be under taken for Potato Demonstration:
The time line as in Point No – A (VI) of this Operational Guidelines.

Annexure – IV

INPUT SUPPORT FOR 1 UNIT (0.10Ha.) DEMONSTRATION OF POTATO DURING KHARIF 2021

Sl.No

Components of Cost

Qnty.

Rate

Amount (in Rs.)

1

Cost of Seed Potato

1.5 Qtl

3900

5850

2

Seed treating chemical like Dithame M - 45 / Curzate M - 8

LS

100

3

Cost of DAP, MOP and Urea Fertilizer

LS

850

4

Mixed Micro Nutrients

LS

75

208

--- Page 210 ---

5 PP Chemicals like Mancozed 75WP / Ridomil / Imibacoloprig LS 500
6 Miscellaneous and other unforeseen charges LS 125
GRAND TOTAL 7500

(Rupees Seven thousand Five hundred) only.

NB:-
1. The cost structure is indicative one & intercomponental changes may be made at DDH / ADH looking at the requirement of Pest and Diseases management for healthy crop.
2. Labour cost will be borne by the farmers.

C. A EXPANSION OF IN CONVERGENCE WITH THE RKVY PROJECT "SUSTAINABLE INTENSIFICATION OF POTATO FOR ACHIEVING SELF-SUFFICIENCY IN ODISHA" DURING KHARIF 2021

I.Selection of Farmers by CIP 
a. The farmers shall be selected for potato cultivation over 600Ha under the Small Farmers' Large Field (SFLF) model by the International Potato Centre (CIP).
b. The maximum area for availing subsidy is limited to 1.0 Ha in the convergence mode.
c. The individual farmer has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned through CIP officials for availing the subsidy in the prescribed application form (copy enclosed as Annexure - I (a) along with Id proof, Land and Bank A/c details.
d. The verification with respect to eligibility to be certified by the CIP officials.

II. Subsidy Convergence Pattern
a. In case of State Plan Scheme Development of Potato, Vegetables and Spices the allowable subsidy is Rs.58,000/- per Ha.
b. The total financial support to be extended to the farmers under RKVY project implemented by this Directorate through CIP is Rs.28231/- per Ha.
c. In order to equalize the subsidy for both the schemes, the convergence of State Plan Scheme Development of Potato, Vegetables and Spices shall be made with RKVY project Sustainable Intensification of Potato for achieving Self-sufficiency in Odisha.
d. The differential subsidy out of Point No. 5 and 6 i.e.Rs.29679/- per Ha shall be made 209

--- Page 211 ---

be paid for the RKVY project out of State Plan Scheme Development of Potato, Vegetables and Spices for potato cultivation in an area of 600 Ha.
e. Out of Rs.29679/-,the seed subsidy shall be Rs.24375/-per Ha and the Planting Care subsidy shall be Rs.5394/-released on being recommended by CIP after 1st earthing up on submission of Completion Report (copy enclosed as Annexure - III) alongwith Geo enabled photograph.

III. Procurement of Seed Potato by CIP
The Seed Potato supply shall be facilitated by the CIP under the RKVY project. The Officials of the Directorate will coordinate and supervise the programme jointly.

IV. Release of Subsidy in Convergence with RKVY project

a. The DDH/ADH has to release the dues towards the seed subsidy @ Rs.24375/-per Ha to the Supplier out of State Plan Scheme Development of Potato, Vegetables and Spices in the convergence programme within 15days from the date receipt of the Invoice. The amount due should be recommended by the CIP along with submission of Challans and Invoice received from the authentic Seed Potato Supplier.
b. The Planting Care subsidy of Rs.5394/-shall be released after 1st earthing up on submission of Completion Report (copy enclosed as Annexure - II) alongwith Geo enabled photograph

V. Joint Verification, Reporting and Documentation
a. The joint crop cutting report should be recorded by the AHO Concerned alongwith the CIP Officials and PRI members.
b. A copy of the approved final beneficiary list of convergence programme in book form & a soft copy should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail to ahorkvy@gmail.com after harvesting is over.

Distric t DDH/A DH Block Suppl y of Seed Potat o in Qntl. Area Covere d (in Ha.) Avera ge Yield per Ha. No. of beneficiary ST SC OC W Tota l

210

--- Page 212 ---

c. Care should be taken jointly by the DDH/ADH and CIP officials to link the farmers for sale of the produce at higher prices.

D. AREA EXPANSION OF ONION DURING KHARIF 2021

I. Selection of Farmers
a. Potential farmers will be selected giving due importance for cluster cultivation of Onion with due representation of SC & ST under the Scheme Dev. of Potato, Vegetable and Spices.
b. One farmer cultivating minimum area of 0.10 Ha. of Onion is eligible to avail subsidy under the scheme and maximum area for availing subsidy is limited to 1.0 Ha.
c. The individual farmer has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for availing the subsidy in the prescribed application form (copy enclosed as Annexure - I) along with the Id proof, Land and Bank A/c details.
d. The verification with respect to the eligibility and land suitability to be certified by the AHO of concerned Block along with the identification of the farmer by Gardner / HEW / HO.

II. Subsidy Pattern :
a. The maximum allowable subsidy is Rs. 58,000/- per Ha. @ 40% of total cost of cultivation of Rs. 1, 45, 000/- (copy enclosed as Annexure - IV).
b. The subsidy will be allowed in two phases as Seed Subsidy and after planting of Onion Seedlings as Planting Care Subsidy.
c. The Seed Subsidy is Rs. 18,750/- per Ha irrespective of the variety procured and the source of procurement and shall be released to the suppliers on authentication by the farmer.
d. The Planting Care Subsidy is Rs. 45,250/- per Ha and is to be released to the farmers after 15 days of planting.
e. The subsidy will be released out of the allotted funds of Rs. 58,000/- per Ha in the Scheme Development of Potato Vegetable and Spices under State Plan.

III. Verification and Procurement of Onion Seed :

a. The list of empanelled supplier alongwith the variety wise rate quoted is as follows.

Name of the        
Bidder                  Variety             Class                  Rate Quoted per   
Kg.

211

--- Page 213 ---

NHRDF, Boudh, Mobile: 9415575819, 7827946625

AFDR

TL

Rs. 2500/- (L1)

NAFED, Bhubaneswar Mobile: 7738474819

Bhima Super (Dark Red, NAFED)

TL

Rs. 3000/-

AFDR (Suraj - 7203) 

Selection / TL

Rs. 2500/- (L1)

N – 53 (Suraj – 7201) 

Selection / TL

Rs. 3000/-

N – 53 (Suraj – 7202)

Selection / TL

Rs. 2990/-

b. It is the responsibility of the supplying agencies for getting the Seed Quality (i.e. germination percentage: minimum 70%, moisture percentage: maximum 8%) tested well in advance before supply to the farmers by requesting the Officers assigned for drawing the samples variety wise and lot wise as follows. 

Name of the Supplying Agency

Officers assigned to draw Samples for Seed quality test.

NHRDF

ADH, Boudh

NAFED, Bhubaneswar

ADH, Bhubaneswar

c. Onion Seed will be procured by the farmers from any of the empanelled supplier as in Point No. III (a) after confirming the status of approval made by DDH / ADH for cultivation of Onion. The Officials of the District / Sub-Division / Block will coordinate and supervise the Seed supply only after receiving the Seed Quality test report. 

d. The empanelled Suppliers will ensure supply of Onion Seed to the approved farmers only in consultation with the DDH / ADH.

e. The Onion Seed shall be supplied by the suppliers only after the receipt of the farmer share.

IV. Release of Subsidy:

a. The DDH/ADH has to release the Seed Subsidy to the Supplier within one month from the date receipt of the Invoice from the supplier with the detailed list of farmers out of the approved list communicated by the DDH/ADH.

b. For release of Seed Subsidy to the supplier by the DDH/ADH, the supplying agencies have to submit the authentication of the farmer towards receipt of the Onion Seed in the Challan / Invoice. 

212

--- Page 214 ---

c. Planting Care Subsidy will be released to the farmers after taking the Geo enabled photograph and submission of completion report (copy enclosed as Annexure - III) to avail final subsidy.

V. Verification, Reporting and Documentation: 
a. The HO/AHO will verify 100%, ADH will verify at least 25% and DDH will verify at least 10% of the beneficiary before the release of subsidy. 
b. The joint crop cutting report should be recorded by the AHO Concerned alongwith the Agriculture Officials / PRI members. 
c. A copy of the approved final beneficiary list in book form & a soft copy should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail to ahorkvy@gmail.com after harvesting is over.

| Distric t | DDH/ ADH | Block | Suppl y of Seed Potat o in Qntl. | Area Covere d (in Ha.) | Avera ge Yield per Ha. | No. of beneficiary | ST | SC | OC | W | Tota l |

d. Care should be taken to link the farmers for sale of the produce at higher prices. 
Annexure–IV.

--- Page 215 ---

Model Estimate for cultivation of 1 Ha. of Onion (Allium cepa)  
Skilled Labour Charge : Rs. 303.40/MD  
Plant Density : 600000  
Spacing: 15cm x 10 cm  

Sl.No | Components of Cost | Unit | Nos | Rate (Rs.) | Cost (Rs.)

A. LABOUR  
1 | Tractor Ploughing | Hrs | 5 | 1000 | 5000  
2 | Cleaning field and bunds | MD | 5 | 303.4 | 1517  
3 | Application of Compost & Basal fertilizer | MD | 5 | 303.4 | 1517  
4 | Nursery bed preparation, Seed treatment & seed sowing | MD | 5 | 303.4 | 1517  
5 | Nursery management for 1 month | MD | 10 | 303.4 | 3034  
6 | Seedling treatment, planting & watering | MD | 40 | 303.4 | 12136  
7 | Irrigation (Need based) | MD | 30 | 303.4 | 9102  
8 | Intercultural operation (hoeing, weeding etc.) | MD | 70 | 303.4 | 21238  
9 | Application of fertilizer & micronutrients | MD | 5 | 303.4 | 1517  
10 | Application of PP chemicals & PGR | MD | 10 | 303.4 | 3034  
11 | Harvesting & Post harvest handling | MD | 110 | 303.4 | 33374  
SUB TOTAL - A |     | MD | 290 |     | 92986  

B. INPUTS  
1 | Cost of Seeds (Approx.) | Kg | 10 | 2000 | 20000  
2 | Seed treating chemical @ 3g/kg | g | 30 | 1 | 30  
3 | Manure / Compost | MT | 10 | 1200 | 12000  
4 | Biofertilizers (Azotobactor + PSB)  
- Fertilizer | Kg | 150 | 12.37 | 1856  
5 | - Nitrogen | Kg | 60 | 47.8 | 2868  
- Phosphorus | Kg | 100 | 27 | 2700  
- Potassium | Kg | 3 | 250 | 750  
6 | Micronutrients | Nos | 5 | 600 | 3000  
7 | PP Chemicals & PGR | Nos | 5 | 600 | 3000  
8 | Irrigation Charges | Hrs | 60 | 75 | 4500  
SUB TOTAL - B |     |     |     |     | 48504  

Miscellaneous / Contingency @ 2% approximately. |     |     |     |     | 3510  

GRAND TOTAL |     |     |     |     | 145000  

(Rupees One Lakh Forty five thousand) only.  

Dr. Ashok Mishra,  
Professor & OIC,  
AICRP on Potato, OUAT

Dr. Pradyumna Tripathy,  
Prof. of Veg. Science, OUAT

Er. Jyoti Prakash Ray,  
AEE, Refrigeration, O/o-DH(O)

Miss Shibani Deo,  
Accounts Officer O/o-DH(O)

Dr. P.K. Bhanja,  
ADH (Policy) O/o-DH(O)

Sri Chitta Ranjan Sahoo,  
AHO (RKVY) O/o-DH(O)

// Approved //  

Sri N.K. Tad,  
Joint Director of Horticulture

Director Horticulture,  
Odisha, Bhubaneswar

--- Page 216 ---

OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CHIEF MINISTER’S PACKAGE
FOR THE PEOPLE AFFECTED DUE TO CYCLONIC STORM “YAAS”

E. FREE DISTRIBUTION OF VEGETABLE MINIKIT TO THE FARMERS OF CYCLONIC STORM “YAAS” AFFECTED DISTRICTS:
VII. Target and Selection of Farm Families:
a. The District wise break up as in Annexure – I shall be communicated to the field offices from the Directorate of Horticulture. The DDH/ADH will communicate the block wise programme of Free Distribution of Vegetable Mini Kits to the ADH/AHOs of the concerned districts.
b. Vegetable Mini Kits containing various Vegetable Seeds suitable for Kharif season shall be procured from the Organization as approved by the Govt.
c. The AHO along with the HO/HEW/ Gardener of the concerned G.P will select the suitable farm families for cultivating the vegetables and prepare the beneficiary list on head of the families. He / She will ensure selection of such farm families by organizing sensitization programme at G.P. level along with agriculture counterpart.
d. After receipt of Vegetable Mini Kit from the approved Suppliers, the local PRI members will be informed by the HO/HEW/ Gardener about the distribution programme at G.P level and they are to be invited to the meeting place where Vegetable Kit distribution programme shall be taken up. One mini kit will be distributed per each selected farm family in presence of PRI Members with proper documentation such as photos, videos etc. Signatures of all the concerned present at the sensitization camp and distribution programme are to be kept as proof.
e. Each farm family should be supplied with one Vegetable Mini Kit only.
f. District wise target of Mini Kits communicated by the Director of Horticulture should be adhered to.

VIII. PROCUREMENT OF VEGETABLE MINI KIT & PAYMENT OF COST THEREOF
a. The DDH / ADH will place order with the selected Supplier as decided by the Govt. which shall be communicated by the Director of Horticulture.
b. The Vegetable Mini Kit will be received by the DDH/ADH on proper Challan/Invoice and payment towards the cost of Vegetable Kit will be made to the supplier out of the funds allotted under the State Plan Scheme “Input Subsidy of Seeds, Fertilizers, Biofertilizers, Pesticides etc.” within 15 working days from the date of receipt of the Invoice.

III.VERIFICATION, REPORTING AND DOCUMENTATION
a) DDH / ADH will verify the beneficiary list maintained by AHOs/ HOs.
b) The concerned AHO/HO will keep record of the beneficiaries, seeds distributed and area covered.

215

--- Page 217 ---

c) HO/HEW/Gardener will verify 100% and record the germination and production of vegetables. 
d) AHO, ADH and DDH will verify 50%, 25% and 10% respectively at random.
e) The AHO/HO in charge will maintain Vegetable Mini Kit Distribution Register in the following format and finally submit the UC of distribution of Vegetable Mini Kit to the DDH / ADH of the district within 15 days from the date of completion of distribution.
f) The soft copy of the beneficiary list and documentation should reach the Directorate of Horticulture after completion of the distribution in the format by the DDH/ADH (independent) which will be uploaded in the website.

Sl No	Name of the beneficiary	Fathers/Husband’s name	Village	G.P	Block	Category SF/MF/Other	Caste (SC/ST/Other)	One Kit supplied (Yes)	Signature of the farmer
					
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
		
District	DDH/ADH	Block	No. of Kit Supplied	No. of Beneficiary
			Tar.	Ach.	SC	ST	OC	Total	W
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10

NB: - The Guidelines may be modified at any time by the Department as per requirement.

F. FREE DISTRIBUTION OF QUALITY PLANTING MATERIALS TO THE FARMERS OF CYCLONIC STORM “YAAS” AFFECTED DISTRICTS:
I. Target and Selection of Farm Families:
a. The District wise break up as in Annexure – I shall be communicated to the field offices from the Directorate of Horticulture. The DDH/ADH will communicate the block wise program of Free Distribution of Fruit Seedlings to the ADH/AHOs of concerned district basing upon the no. of affected farmers by cyclonic storm “YAAS”.

c. The following 10 (ten) Fruit Seedlings will be supplied to the farm families for taking up the backyard plantation during Kharif 2021.

Fruit Seedlings	No. of Plants
Papaya	4
Drum Stick	2
Banana	2
Klime	2

216

--- Page 218 ---

d. The AHO along with the HO/HEW/ Gardener of the concerned G.P identify the suitable farm families for backyard plantation and prepare the beneficiary list of head of the family. He / She will ensure selection of such farm families by organizing sensitization programme at G.P. level along with agriculture counterpart.
e. On readiness of arrangement of fruit Seedlings, the local PRI members will be informed by the HO/HEW/ Gardener about the distribution programme at G.P level and they are to be invited to the meeting place where the Fruit Seedling distribution will be taken up. One Unit comprising of 10 (ten) seedlings shall be distributed per affected farm family in presence of PRI Members with proper documentation such as photos, videos etc. Signatures of all the concerned present at the sensitization camp and distribution programme are to be kept as proof.
f. Each farm family should be supplied with one unit only on free of cost.
g. District wise target of Fruit Seedling distribution communicated by the Director of Horticulture should be adhered to.
II. PROCUREMENT OF FRUIT SEEDLING & PAYMENT OF COST THEREOF
a. The DDH / ADH will raise/arrange seedlings following due procedure as communicated by the Director of Horticulture.
b. The cost of fruit seedlings shall be made out of the funds allotted under the State Plan Scheme “Input Subsidy of Seeds, Fertilizers, Bio-fertilizers, Pesticides etc”.
III. VERIFICATION, REPORTING AND DOCUMENTATION
a) The concerned AHO/HO will keep record of the beneficiaries and seedlings distributed.
b) DDH / ADH will verify the beneficiary list maintained by AHOs/ HOs.
c) HO/HEW/Gardener will verify 100%. AHO will verify 50%, ADH will verify 25% and DDH will verify 10% respectively at random.
d) The AHO/HO in charge will maintain Fruit Seedling Distribution register in the following format and finally submit the UC of distribution to the DDH / ADH of the district within 15 days from the date of completion of distribution.
e) The soft copy of the beneficiary list and documentation should reach the Directorate of Horticulture after completion of the distribution in the format by the DDH/ADH (independent) which will be uploaded in the website.
Sl No
Name of the beneficiary
Fathers/ Husband’s name
Village
G.P
Block
Category SF/MF /Other
Caste (SC/ST/ Other)
Name & Nos. Planting Materials supplie
Signature of the farmer

--- Page 219 ---

1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10
Distri ct	DDH/A DH	Bloc k	No. of Planting Material sold	No. of Beneficiary		
Tar.	Ach.	SC	ST	OC	Total	W	
1	2	3	4	5	6	7	8	9	10		
NB: - The Guidelines may be modified at any time by the Department as per requirement.

G. ASSISTANCE FOR REPAIR AND RENOVATION OF BETEL VINE CULTIVATION (PAN BAROJ) TO THE FARMERS OF CYCLONIC STORM “YAAS” AFFECTED DISTRICTS:

I. TARGET AND SELECTION OF FARMERS:
a) The District wise break up as in Annexure – I shall be communicated to the field offices from the Directorate of Horticulture.
b) One farmer is eligible to avail assistance for 1 unit Betel Vine (Pan Baroj) only (0.04ha.)
c) The financial assistance to be extended is Rs. 15,000/- for 1 Unit of Betel Vine (Pan Baroj) only.
d) He must be an affected farmer in respect of his Betel Vine Unit (Pan Baroj) due to cyclonic storm “YAAS”.
e) The DDH/ADH will communicate the block wise target after the proper selection of affected farmers of Betel Vine (Pan Baroj).
f) The beneficiary has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for availing the financial incentive in the prescribed application form (Annexure –II) along with Id proof and Account details.
g) The verification with respect to the damage report is to be certified by the AHO along with the identification of the beneficiary by Gardener / HEW / HO of concerned Block.
h) The beneficiary will take up necessary maintenance / renovation of work of the betelvine unit and furnish the Completion Certificate (Annexure – III) along with the Geo enabled photograph of the restored Betel Vine unit which will be certified by the AHO concerned.
i) Besides, the beneficiary will submit an undertaking to the DDH/ADH in respect of the amount spent for the cultivation. For availing the full assistance, the amount spent by the affected farmer should be equal or more than the amount of financial assistance.

218

--- Page 220 ---

II. SUBSIDY PARTERN
a. The maximum allowable subsidy is Rs. 15000/- per Unit of Betel Vine (Pan Baroj) after submission of completion certificate (Annexure – III) and necessary verification.
b. The subsidy will be released through DBT out of the allotted funds under Input Subsidy of Seeds, Fertilizers, Biofertilizers, Pesticides etc. under State Plan.

III. VERIFICATION & RELEASE OF SUBSIDY:
a) HO/HEW/Gardener will verify 100%. AHO will verify 50%, ADH will verify 25% and DDH will verify 10% respectively at random before release of subsidy.
b) The soft copy of the beneficiary list and documentation should reach the Directorate of Horticulture after completion of the Repair and Renovation of Betel Vine (Pan Baroj) Cultivation in the following format by the DDH/ADH (independent) which will be uploaded in the website.
c) After getting completion certificate from the AHO, the DDH / ADH has to release the assistance of Rs. 15000/Unit through DBT within 15 working days of verification.

Sl No
Name of the Cyclonic Storm YAAS affected Betel Vine farmer
Fathers/Husband’s name
Village
G.P
Block
Category SF/MF /Other
Caste (SC/ST /Other)
Date of Completion of repair and renovation
Date of release of subsidy

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

District
DDH/ADH
Block
No. of Betel Vine repair and renovation
Tar.
Ach.
No. of Beneficiary
SC
ST
OC
Total
W
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

NB: The Guidelines may be modified at any time by the Department as per requirement.

H. ASSISTANCE FOR REPAIR AND RENOVATION OF MUSHROOM UNIT TO THE FARMERS

219

--- Page 221 ---

OF CYCLONIC STORM “YAAS” AFFECTED DISTRICTS:

I. TARGET AND SELECTION OF FARMERS: 
a) The District wise break up as in Annexure – I shall be communicated to the field offices from the Directorate of Horticulture.
b) One farmer is eligible to avail assistance of Rs. 40,000/- for 1 Unit of Mushroom Unit only.
c) He must be an affected farmer in respect of his Mushroom Unit due to cyclonic storm “YAAS".
d) The DDH/ADH will communicate the block wise target after the proper selection of affected farmers of Mushroom Unit.
e) The beneficiary has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for availing the incentive in the prescribed application form (Annexure –II) along with Id proof and account details.
f) The verification with respect to the damage report is to be certified by the AHO along with the identification of the beneficiary by Gardener / HEW / HO of concerned Block.
g) The beneficiary will take up necessary maintenance / renovation of work and furnish the Completion Certificate (Annexure – III) along with the Geo enabled photograph of restored Mushroom Unit which will be certified by the AHO concerned.
h) Besides, the beneficiary will submit an undertaking to the DDH/ADH in respect of the amount spent for the repair and renovation of Mushroom Unit. For availing the full assistance, the amount spent by the affected farmer should be equal or more than the amount of financial assistance.

II. SUBSIDY PARTERN
a. The maximum allowable subsidy is Rs. 40000/- for repair and renovation of Mushroom Unit after submission of completion certificate (Annexure – III) and necessary verification.
b. The tentative cost structure for repair / renovation of Mushroom Unit.

Sl. No. Particulars No. or Quantity Rate (Rs) Amount (Rs)
A. Fixed Cost
1. Construction of shed of size 25’x12’=300Sqft. Side height 6ft., middle height 9ft. (Two tier structure which will have 600Sqft. to accommodate 60 beds of paddy straw
1 100/-Sqft. 30,000.00

--- Page 222 ---

mushroom per fortnight.
2 Bamboo for platform 30 100/- 3000.00
Sub- Total 33,000.00

B. Recurring cost of 120 beds of Paddy straw Mushroom for one month
7 Paddy straw for 120beds @10Kg. Per bed (Size 5’X1 5’X1 5’)
1200Kg Rs.1.50 (@0.75/bundle) 1800.00
8 Spawn bottles one big bottle per bed
120 bottles Rs. 12/- 1,440.00
9 Wheat bran or rice bran @ 200gm /bed for 120 beds
24 Kg. Rs. 20/ Kg 480.00
10 Labour 10 MD Rs. 280/- 2800.00
11 Misc. 480.00
12 Sub- Total 7,000.00
13 Total Cost (A + B) 40,000.00

c. The subsidy will be released through DBT out of the allotted funds under Input Subsidy of Seeds, Fertilizers, Biofertilizers, Pesticides etc. under State Plan.

III. VERIFICATION & RELEASE OF SUBSIDY:
a) HEW/Gardner will verify 100%. AHO will verify 50%, ADH will verify 25% and DDH will verify 10% respectively at random before release of subsidy.
b) The soft copy of the beneficiary list and documentation should reach the Directorate of Horticulture after completion of the Repair and Renovation of Mushroom Unit in the following format by the DDH/ADH (independent) which will be uploaded in the website.
c) After getting completion certificate from the AHO, the DDH / ADH has to release the assistance of Rs. 40,000/Unit through DBT within 15 working days of verification.

Sl No
Name of the Cyclonic Storm YAAS affected Mushroom farmer
Fathers/Husband’s name
Village
G. P
Block
Category SF/MF /Other
Caste (SC/ST /Other)
Date of Completion of repair and renovation
Date of release of subsidy
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9

Distri DDH/A Bloc No. No. of Beneficiary
221

--- Page 223 ---

ct DH k Mushroom Unit Repair and Renovation
Tar. Ach. SC ST OC Total W
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

NB:-The Guidelines may be modified at any time by the Department as per requirement.

Annexure – I

DISTRICT WISE ACTION PLAN ON CHIEF MINISTER'S PACKAGE FOR THE PEOPLE AFFECTED DUE TO VERY SEVERE CYCLONIC STORM "YASS" - 2021 UNDER THE STATE PLAN SCHEME "INPUT SUBSIDY OF SEEDS, FERTILIZERS, BIO-FERTILIZERS, PESTICIDES ETC."

Sl. No.

Name of the Districts

Components

Supply of Vegetable Mini Kits at free of cost to the affected farmers @ Rs. 120/- per Kit.

Incentive for renovation of Betel Vine cultivation (Pan Baroj) @ Rs. 15,000/- per farmer.

Restoration of Mushroom Unit @ Rs. 40,000/- per Unit

Distribution of Quality Planting Material for backyard plantation@ Rs. 115/-

Total(in Rs)

Phy.

Fin.

Phy.

Fin.

Phy.

Fin.

Phy.

Fin.

Fin.

1 DDH Balasore 2200 264000 82 1230000 7 280000 2200 253000 2027000

2 ADH Nilagiri 500 60000 500 57500 117500

3 ADH Bhadrak 2800 336000 1 15000 9 360000 2800 322000 1033000

4 ADH Jagatsinghpur 600 72000 600 69000 141000

5 ADH Jajpur 1500 180000 19 760000 1500 172500 1112500

6 ADH Kendrapada 1200 144000 42 630000 15 600000 1200 138000 1512000

222

--- Page 224 ---

a

7 DDH Keonjhar 500 60000 500 57500 117500
8 ADH Anandapur 200 24000 200 23000 47000
9 ADH Champua 200 24000 200 23000 47000
10 DDH Mayurbhanj 300 36000 300 34500 70500

Total 10000 1200000 125 1875000 50 2000000 10000 1150000 6225000

(Rupees Sixty Two Lakh and Twenty Five Thousand) only.

I. OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR SUBSIDISED SALE OF PLANTING MATERIALS DURING 2021-22.
i. The beneficiary will be selected well in advance by the field functionary and duly verified by the AHO/ADH/DDH concerned.
ii. Due emphasis should be given on ST/SC beneficiary as per the fund flow.
iii. The Planting Materials are to be sold as mentioned below;

Sl.No Name of the Planting Material All in Cost during 2021-22 Input Subsidy under State Plan Sale rate to the farmers
01 Mango Graft 35.00 18.00 17.00
02 Cashew grafts 35.00 18.00 17.00
03 Sapota Graft 44.00 19.00 25.00
04 K.Lime Seedling 15.00 8.00 7.00
05 Guava Gootee 29.00 18.00 11.00
06 Litchi Gootee 34.00 18.00 16.00
07 Coconut Seedling (Local) 60.00 30.00 30.00
08 Drumstick Seedling 8.00 4.00 4.00
09 Papaya Seedling (Hyb) 15.00 7.00 8.00
10. Papaya Seedling (OP/D) 5.00 3.00 2.00
11 Papaya Seedling (GD) 6.50 3.50 3.00

223

--- Page 225 ---

(Inter Componental changes within the planting material listed and within the total projected cost is allowed as per the availability and demand of planting material in the field for subsidized sale of planting material)   
iv. Inter Componental changes within the planting material is allowed as per the availability and demand and must be within the total provision of funds.  
v. One beneficiary will only avail subsidy for 10 Plants only in one financial year.  
vi. The Planting Material should be sold after receipt of the farmer share.  
vii. Only the subsidized cost will be allotted under State Plan and the DDH/ADH will make expenditure both the allotted amount and the farmer share to square up the account within all in cost price.  
viii. The required QPM except Drumstick Seedling and Papaya Seedling may be lifted by the DDH/ADH as per the diversion programme.  
ix. The Drumstick Seedling and Papaya Seedling shall be preferably raised by the concerned DDHs/ADHs.  
x. Technical Guidance for plantation and maintenance should be given by the officers and field staff .  
xi. The DDH/ADH will maintain a detailed record with respect to Name, Father’s Name, Village, GP, Block, Category of farmer, Nos. of Plant supplied etc.  
xii. Regular visit of the field staff to plantation site shall be ensured by the concerned supervising officials.  
xiii. A copy of the final beneficiary list in book form in the following format shall be maintained at block level & a soft copy thereof should be submitted to the Director of Horticulture, Odisha, Bhubaneswar through e-mail after sale of Planting Materials is over.

| Sl No | Name of the Beneficiary | Fathers/Husband’s name | Village | G.P | Block | Category SF/MF/Other | Caste (SC/ST/Other) | Name & Nos. of Planting Materials supplied | Date of release of subsidy |
|------|-------------------------|------------------------|--------|-----|------|---------------------|---------------------|--------------------------------------------|--------------------------|
| 1    | 2                       | 3                      | 4      | 5   | 6    | 7                   | 8                   | 9                                          |

| District | DDH/ADH | Block | No. of Planting Material sold | No. of Beneficiary |
|----------|---------|-------|------------------------------|---------------------|
|          |         |       | Tar. | Ach. | SC | ST | OC | Total | W |
| 1        | 2       | 3     | 4    | 5    | 6  | 7  | 8  | 9     | 10|

NB:-The Guidelines may be modified at any time by the Department as per requirement.

J. OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES FOR MUSHROOM CULTIVATION DURING 2021-22. 

224

--- Page 226 ---

➢ One women SHG / FIG member or individual is eligible to avail subsidy of Rs. 1500/- for growing newly 30 beds of Paddy Straw Mushroom in a fortnight. 
➢ The Group/Individual has to apply to the DDH / ADH concerned for availing the incentives in the prescribed application form along with Id proof and account details of the group/individual as the case may be. 
➢ The verification is to be made by the AHO of the concerned Block in respect of availability of site and raw materials for raising of Mushroom Bed alongwith the identification by the Gardner / HEW / HO. 
➢ The Group/Individual will furnish the completion certificate along with the photograph of the raised mushroom beds which will be certified by the AHO concerned. 
➢ The HO / AHO will verify 100%, ADH will verify at least 25 % & DDH will verify at least 10% of the beneficiaries before the release of financial assistance. 
➢ After getting completion certificate from the AHO, the DDH / ADH has to release the assistance directly to the beneficiary Bank A/c as the case may be through NEFT within 15 days of verification.

Sl No
Name of the Cyclonic Storm YAAS affected Mushroom farmer
Fathers/Husband’s name
Village
G. P
Block
Category SF/MF/Other
Caste (SC/ST/Other)
Date of Completion
Date of release of subsidy

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9

District
DDH/ADH
Block
No. Mushroom Unit cultivated
Tar.
Ach.
No. of Beneficiary
SC
ST
OC
Total
W

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10

225

--- Page 227 ---

NB:- The Guidelines may be modified at any time by the Department as per requirement.
SPECIAL INITIATIVES UNDERTAKEN IN HORTICULTURE SECTOR

A. Promotion of Agriculture Production Clusters (APCs) in tribal regions of Odisha
The project is being implemented by Agriculture & Farmers’ Empowerment Department, Govt. of Odisha in partnership with Bharat Rural Livelihoods Foundation (BRLF), and a national level NGO PRADAN (Profession Assistance for Development Action) for establishment of Agriculture Production Clusters (APCs) in 40 backward blocks of 12 districts in convergence mode. The total estimated cost of the project is Rs.401.6 Crore. The project will create the livelihood assets and also look after the market linkages for the produces made by the different producer groups.

B. Hon’ble Chief Minister Package for COVID-19
To assist the farmers in escaping from stress conditions, the programme was taken up with financial outlay of Rs. 10386.00 Lakh. Mushroom cultivation, Flower cultivation, Rabi vegetable cultivation faced management and marketing problems due to lock down in the wake of COVID – 19. To provide the nutritional security, the programme was taken up for supplying Vegetable Minikits to five Lakh Farm families, supplying Fruit Plants to 2,00,000 farm families for backyard plantation.

For income generation and livelihood sustenance, there was a programme of Special Assistance for High Value Vegetables (Creeper Crop) through Single Line Trellis under Production Cluster programme and programme for Flower Cultivation covering 15000 farmers. To support the Mushroom growers the programme was made for 50,000 WSHG /FIG members and 10,000 Individuals to provide incentives for cultivation and to minimize the post-harvest losses there is programme of supplying Plastic Crates to 1,00,000 WSHG/FIG members @ 4 nos. of Plastic Crates with 90% subsidy for safe carrying of fruits and vegetables.

C. Hon’ble Chief Minister Package for Flood affected Districts
For nutritional security, there was financial outlay of Rs. 300.00 Lakh for supplying Vegetable Minikits to 1.00 Lakh Farmers, supplying of Mixed Fruit Plants to 75,000 farm families for backyard plantation and for taking up repairing of shade of Mushroom Units, there was provision of the financial assistance of Rs. 500/- each covering 10,000 farmers in the Flood affected districts.

--- Page 228 ---

Schemes of Soil Conservation & Watershed Development

227

--- Page 229 ---

CENRAL SPONSERED SCHEME

PMKSY (Erstwhile IWMP)

Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) has been formulated with the vision of extending the coverage of irrigation ‘HarKhetkopani’ and improving water use efficiency ‘More crop per drop’ in a focused manner with end to end solution on source creation, distribution, management, field application and extension activities. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Hon’ble Prime Minister has accorded approval of Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) in its meeting held on 1st July, 2015.

PMKSY has been formulated amalgamating on-going schemes viz. Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme (AIBP) of the Ministry of Water Resources, River Development & Ganga Rejuvenation (MoWR, RD & GR), Integrated Watershed Management Programme (IWMP) of Department of Land Resources (DoLR) and the On Farm Water Management (OFWM) of Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC). PMKSY has been approved for implementation across the country with an outlay of Rs. 50,000 crore in five years.

The major objective of PMKSY is to achieve convergence of investments in irrigation at the field level, expand cultivable area under assured irrigation, improve on-farm water use efficiency to reduce wastage of water, enhance the adoption of precision-irrigation and other water saving technologies (More crop per drop), enhance recharge of aquifers and introduce sustainable water conservation practices by exploring the feasibility of reusing treated municipal waste water for peri-urban agriculture and attract greater private investment in precision irrigation system.

Prime Minister Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (Watershed Development Component) (WDC-PMKSY) is a modified programme of erstwhile Drought Prone Areas Programme (DPAP), Desert Development Programme (DDP) and Integrated Wastelands Development Programme (IWDP) of the Department of Land Resources. This consolidation is for optimum use of resources, sustainable outcomes and integrated planning. The scheme was launched during 2009-10. The programme is being implemented as per Common Guidelines for Watershed Development Projects 2008. The main objectives of the WDC-PMKSY are to restore the ecological balance by harnessing, conserving and developing degraded natural resources such as soil, vegetative cover and water. The outcomes are prevention of soil erosion, regeneration of natural vegetation, rain water harvesting and recharging of the ground water table. This enables multi-cropping and the

228

--- Page 230 ---

introduction of diverse agro-based activities, which help to provide sustainable livelihoods to the people residing in the watershed area.

The salient features of WDC-PMKSY are as below:

• Setting up of Dedicated Institutions with multi-disciplinary experts at State level - State Level Nodal Agency (SLNA), District level - Watershed Cell cum Data Centre (WCDC), Project level - Project Implementing Agency (PIA) and Village level - Watershed Committee (WC).
• Cluster Approach in selection and preparation of projects: Average size of project - about 5,000 ha.
• Enhanced Cost Norms from Rs. 6000 per ha. to Rs.12, 000/ha. in plains; Rs.15,000/ ha in difficult/hilly areas.
• The funding pattern between Centre and State in the erstwhile IWMP was 90:10. The funding pattern under Watershed Development Component of PMKSY is 60:40 between Centre and the States for all the States except North-Eastern States and Hill States (J&K, H.P &Uttarakhand). For the North-Eastern States and Hill States (J&K, H.P & Uttarakhand) the funding pattern between Centre and the States is 90:10. For Union Territories, the scheme will be funded 100 percent by the Central Government.
• Flexibility in the project period i.e. 4 to 7 years.
• Scientific planning of the projects by using IT, remote sensing techniques, GIS facilities for planning and monitoring & evaluation.
• Earmarking of project funds for DPR preparation (1%), Entry point activities (4%), Capacity building (5%), Monitoring (1%) and Evaluation (1%).
• Introduction of new livelihood component with earmarking of project fund under Watershed Projects i.e. 9% of project fund for livelihoods for asset less people and 10% for production system & micro-enterprises.
• Delegation of power of sanction of projects to States.

RAD

Indian agriculture remains predominantly rain fed covering about 60% of the country’s net sown area and accounts for 40% of the total food production. National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) has been formulated for enhancing agricultural productivity especially in rain fed areas focusing on integrated farming, water use efficiency, soil health management and synergizing resource conservation. Rain fed Area Development (RAD) is one of the four components of National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA).

RAD adopts an area based approach for development and conservation of natural resources along with appropriate integrated farming system. It explores potential

--- Page 231 ---

utilization of natural assets created / available through Watershed Development and Soil conservation activities under MGNREGS/NWDPRA / RVP /RKVY /IWMP etc. It aims at promoting Integrated Farming System (IFS) with emphasis on multi cropping, rotational cropping ,inter cropping ,mix cropping practices and allied activities of Horticulture, Livestock, Fishery, Forestry, Apiculture, Mushroom etc. which enable the farmers in not only maximizing farm production for sustainable livelihood , but also to mitigate the impact of drought, flood and other extreme weather events. Under this programme Location specific crops, Fruits, vegetables, medicinal plants etc are supported and natural resource strengthening activities are either converged or supplemented Implementation of RAD has been taken up since 2014-15. 

A Brief overview of RKVY

To spur growth in agriculture & allied sectors National Development Council in its meeting held on 29th May 2007 observed that a special Additional Central Assistance (ACA) scheme be introduced to incentivize States to draw up a comprehensive agriculture development plans taking into account Agro climatic conditions, natural resources & technology for ensuring more inclusive & integrated development of agriculture & allied sectors. In pursuance to the above observation Department of Agriculture & Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Govt. of India launched the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) in the year 2007 – 08 which has been operational since then. RKVY aims at achieving & sustaining desired annual growth during XII plan period by ensuring holistic development of agriculture & allied sectors.

Eligibility Criteria: - A state will become eligible to receive RKVY allocation, if & only if 
• The base line share of Agriculture & allied sectors in iys total State Plan (excluding RKVY funds) expenditure is at least maintained & 
• District Agriculture Plans (DAP) & State Agriculture Plan (SAP) have been formulated.

The broad areas of focus are 
Infrastructure & Assets 
• Special schemes 
• Production growth 

State Level Project Screening Committee (SLPSC):- A State Level Project Screening Committee (SLPSC) has been constituted for screening of RKVY project proposals under the Chairmanship of the Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC). The other members are the heads of various organizations which are availing funds 

--- Page 232 ---

from RKVY. The SLPSC screens all the project proposals including DPRs for ensuring conformity with RKVY guidelines. After thoroughly screening the DPRs & project proposals are recommended to the State Level Sanctioning Committee (SLSC) for consideration of sanctioning the projects. 

State Level Sanctioning Committee (SLSC):- The State Level Sanctioning Committee (SLSC) is headed by the Chief Secretary of the state & is vested with the authority to sanction specific projects recommended by the SLPSC under each stream of RKVY. The quorum for SLSC would not be complete without the presence of at least one representative from Govt. of India. The SLSC will inter alia. be responsible for the following 

• Sanctioning the projects under RKVY. 
• Monitoring progress of each project sanctioned by it under each stream of RKVY. 
• Reviewing implementation of the scheme objectives & ensure that the projects / schemes are implemented in accordance with the guidelines laid down. 
• Ensuring that no duplication of efforts or resources takes place. 
• Commissioning / undertaking field studies to monitor implementation of the projects. 
• Initiating evaluation studies from time to time as may be required. 
• Undertaking any other project of importance to the State’s Agriculture & allied sectors. 

Ensuring that there are no inter district disparities with respect to the financial patterns / subsidy assistance in the project. 

MGNREGS Convergence Programme 

The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (NREGA), notified on September 7, 2005, marked a paradigm shift from the previous wage employment programs with its rights-based approach that makes the Government legally accountable for providing employment to those who demand it. The Act aims at enhancing livelihood security of households in rural areas of the country by providing at least one hundred days of guaranteed wage employment in a financial year to every household whose adult members volunteer to do unskilled manual work. 

The primary objective of the Act is to augment wage employment. Its auxiliary objective is strengthening natural resource management through works that address causes of chronic poverty like drought and thus encourage sustainable development. MGNREGA, through its focus on works in the categories of water harvesting, soil conservation, irrigation, flood protection, afforestation and plantation, helps to insulate local 231

--- Page 233 ---

community from adverse effects of climate change. The process outcomes include strengthening grass root processes of democracy and infusing transparency and accountability in governance.

Under MGNREGA large sums of public money are invested. Leveraging these investments towards sustainable livelihood requires inter-sectoral convergence. Since planning for MGNREGA is decentralized and there is a certain degree of flexibility with funds, works can be planned / structured and executed as per local requirements. MGNREGA thus becomes a significant entry point for convergence with other development programs. Convergence is an evolving process and while broad principles can be laid out at the Centre, the actual contours of convergence will be determined by the resources at the Central, State, District and the project level. Also, to fully identify the areas for convergence, it may be necessary to make a beginning with select programs, so that the experience of implementation may further inform and refine strategies for convergence.

One of the significant programs for convergence is the Integrated Watershed Management Programme (IWMP) latter on PMKSY Programme of the Dept of Land Resources (DoLR) in the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD).

IWMP which is being implemented as per the Common Guidelines for Watershed Development Projects, 2008 (revised in 2011). The main aims of the IWMP are to restore the ecological balance by harnessing, conserving and developing degraded natural resources such as soil, vegetative cover and water. The expected outcomes are increase in availability of surface water and ground water, conversion of wastelands into productive lands, increase in cropping intensity and agriculture productivity, generation of livelihoods for asset-less people and small & marginal farmers.

Convergence between MGNREGA and IWMP latter on PMKSY:

Convergence between MGNREGA and IWMP latter on PMKSY is crucial and also mutually beneficial because 70% of works taken up in MGNREGA relate to soil and water conservation. The focus of IWMP is on improving soil and water conservation in the area with the poorest soil and water regimes. It is primarily inhabitants in these areas that require support for securing additional employment as the agricultural operations are not adequate to meet the livelihood needs. It is precisely here that MGNREGA can provide the required support. Moreover, under MGNREGA almost all assets necessary for watershed development are permitted. IWMP also has a livelihood component. Thus, while funds for creation of durable and sustainable assets can come from both the programs, the cost for training for livelihood can be undertaken from IWMP fund. 

232

--- Page 234 ---

STATE SPONSORED SCHEME

Farm Pond

Odisha is bestowed with an average annual rainfall of 1400 mm. Though, such amount of rainfall is sufficient for cultivation practices during the Kharif, its erratic and uneven distribution results in occurrence of drought and flood. Water scarcity during critical stages of crop growth hampers its production; hence it affects farmers’ income. To supplement the water shortage during that critical juncture, farm pond scheme is conceptualised, particularly to provide lifesaving irrigation during Kharif and popularisation of Integrated farming system.
Objective:-
1. Creating storage facility during rainy season with minimum investment and providing lifesaving irrigation in the event of erratic rain distribution during Kharif.
2. Undertaking Integrated Farming System (IFS) for sustainable Agriculture with Additional income generation to farm families and making them self-reliant
3. To ensure income generation and employment creation for unskilled labourers as per mandate of MGNREGA.
Stake Holders:-
• Directorate of Soil Conservation & Watershed Development (Nodal Agency), Directorate of Horticulture, Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production.
• Mission Shakti and Department of Panchayatiraj and Drinking Water
Target Group:-
• The farm families residing in rural areas having land at least the size of farm pond are eligible under the programme and Beneficiaries will be selected as per eligibility mentioned in the MGNREGS guidelines.
Working Principle:-
1. The field level official like VAW / HEW / SCEW will identify the beneficiary with active help of WSHG, PRI members and facilitate preparation, submission of completed application with due verification of land records and feasibility report.
2. After the receipt of approvals by the Palli Sabha / Gram Sabha steps will be taken for Technical Sanction / Financial sanction. The work order will be issued in favour of the beneficiary by the i.e. PDWS / ADSC, being the Programme Officer
3. The work will be executed manually through job card holders (wage seekers) with Grade-1 Women SHGs as worksite supervisor who shall be engaged by the Project Implementing Agency (PIA) of concerned district in consultation with Mission Shakti. Payment of wages will be made as per norms of MGNREGS.
4. The pond size should be selected as per the availability of land holdings. Three indicative models are prepared as below.

--- Page 235 ---

Model.1- 10m x 10m x 3m, Model 2-15m x 15m x 3m, Model.3- 20m x 20m x 3m

(The estimates should be prepared as per the actual size / site / Soil condition following prevailing Schedule of Rates of Works Department and MGNREGS cost norms and duly approved by competent authority.) 

Operational Guidelines on Farm Pond+ 

1. Introduction:
1.1 Agriculture and allied sector is the backbone of the Indian economy. Nearly 62% people earn their livelihood through Agriculture and allied activities. Growth of this sector is necessary for ensuring food security as well as the overall socio-economic growth of the farming community. Out of the farming community 85% are small and marginal farmers who have limited access to resources and hence practise subsistence farming. Frequent occurrence of extreme weather events like cyclones, floods, droughts along with high cost of farm inputs like quality seeds / fertilisers / machineries are among factors that affect production and ultimately the farm returns. During last twenty years the farmers' income in the state has been showing a steady growth but still languishing against the national average. At present Agriculture contributes 21.27% of GSDP in the state, which shows lot of efforts are needed to minimise the disparity between the per capita income through farm sector and non-farm sector. Additional income generating activities in the farm field need to be explored which can add income and employment opportunities with minimum capital investments. One of such intervention was excavation of farm ponds to increase water availability to plants.

1.2 Farm Pond:
Out of the cultivated area of 61.80 Lakh hectares, the state has utilised the irrigation potential in 26.94 Lakh hectares during 2019-20 Kharif (DOWR, Odisha), leaving rest of the cultivated area under rainfed conditions. The production from rainfed areas contributes only about 40%, one of the main reasons for its underperformance can be attributed to its high dependency on monsoons. Variations in the monsoon can cause crop failure in the short run and even drought in the long run. Production from these areas can be increased by addressing the requirement of water during critical stages of crop growth. Department of Agriculture and Farmers' Empowerment during 2019-20 has implemented ambitious programme "Construction of 5 lakh farm ponds in 5 years and supervised by WSHGs" under 5T initiative as a step towards supplementation of irrigation needs in the event of longer dry spells/ extreme weather events. The initiative was also aimed at creating rural employment 234

--- Page 236 ---

during Covid-19 pandemic situation Implementation of the programme revolved around three departments viz., PR & DW, DA & FE and Mission Shakti with involvement of all stakeholders. Drought proofing, flood management measures with livelihood security for the poor has been one of the mandates under Mahatma Gandhi NREGA. Creation of durable assets like farm ponds can improve water security, soil and moisture conservation and thus, lessen the vagaries of uncertain monsoon for the development of the economy as well as for the well-being of the households engaged in the agricultural workforce in rural Odisha. The department of PR & DW would sanction the projects with respect to submission of proposals by implementing agency DSC& WD under the Department of A&FE. The directorate of SC & WD in turn would ensure proper execution of farm ponds through its field functionaries and encourage beneficiaries for inclusion in the programme though different awareness campaigns. For speedy completion of the excavation, the WSHGs of concerned localities under Mission Shakti department would act as supervisor and facilitate the job card holders to perform the intended duties.
1.3 The farm ponds shall be excavated manually with engagement of job card holders as per norms laid down in master circular of MGNREGA. Eligible beneficiaries can submit application to the field functionaries of Agriculture & FE department like SCEW /VAW /HEW in the prescribed format for construction of such farm ponds. The application form and different models are appended at Annexure-i.

2. Farm pond+
2.1 Farm pond+ was conceptualised as an initiative pertaining to intensification, diversification and for surplus generation from various farm-based livelihoods (agriculture, horticulture, fisheries and livestock) activities. It is an initiative by Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Empowerment, Government of Odisha to act as a tool for enhancing the productivity of farm ponds for income augmentation of farmers in the state. To transform the agriculture practice from subsistence to sustainable, farm pond + shall act as one of the most important components. This will result in ensuring multiplication of farmers’ income, reduction of crop failures and hence, bring financial security to farm families. The farmers need to adopt remunerative practices with due guidance from all stakeholders. This shall not only boost the farm income of the farmer but also strengthen the economy of the state in general.

235

--- Page 237 ---

3. Objectives
2.2.1 To provide protective / lifesaving irrigation during critical stages of growth of plants in the event of long dry spells and also during moisture stress condition of plants.
2.2.2 Adoption of different component of integrated farming system for income augmentation and step towards multiplying farmers’ income.
2.2.3 Judicious use of irrigation water through adoption of on farm water management practices.
2.2.4 Addressing livelihood, nutritional security and diversity in rural Odisha.

3. Components of Farm Pond +:
3.1 Farm pond based Integrated farming system with fish, duck and agri/ horti crops plays a significant role in increasing production, income, nutrition and employment opportunities of rural populations. Apart from above, safeguarding the crop through lifesaving irrigation at the time of need in critical growth stage of crops ensures sustainable agriculture practice and income generation. Few among many components of farm pond+ are as follows:
3.2 Pisciculture and Duckery:
Fish ponds provide an excellent environment to ducks which prevent them from infection of parasites. Ducks feed on predators and help the fingerlings to grow. Duck raising in fish ponds reduces the demand for protein to 2% to 3% in duck feed. Duck droppings go directly into water providing essential nutrients to increase the biomass of natural food organisms. The daily waste of duck feed (about 20 to 30 gm/duck) serves as fish feed in ponds or as manure, resulting in higher fish yield. Manuring is conducted by ducks and homogeneously distributed without any heaping of duck droppings.
3.3 Micro irrigation systems:
Micro-irrigation system is effective in saving water and increasing water use efficiency as compared to the conventional surface irrigation method. Besides, it helps reduce water consumption, growth of unwanted plants (weeds), soil erosion and cost of cultivation. Water is applied via pressurized piping system. Micro-irrigation requires pumps for developing the required pressure for delivering water through pipelines.

1.4 Pump sets:
Mechanization in farm field taken up with an aim to reduce drudgery of labor, reduce the cost of production and enable timely agricultural operations with precision. Farm power availability in Odisha was 1.93 kW/ha during 2020-21. Pump sets popularization is one of the step towards catching up with the national average (2.02 kW/ ha,)

1.5 Bund Plantation and Agro forestry:

236

--- Page 238 ---

Agro forestry is a land use management system in which trees or shrubs are grown around or among crops or pastureland. Promotion to plantation of suitable species of saplings (fruits/ forest species) shall be made in order to encourage bund plantation &/ or Agro forestry in the ayacut areas.

1.6 Minikits of Vegetable/ Cereals and others:

To popularize newer varieties and a step towards improved production, minikits of various cereals, pulses, oilseeds, millets, vegetables & fruit saplings will be distributed to eligible farm pond beneficiaries with an aim to expand the coverage area of improved seeds and adoption of improved practices.

1.7 Other Components:

Other Agriculture and allied enterprises which can improve the income of farmers like mushroom cultivation, mushroom spawn production, fish fry production /Apiculture etc as admissible under various schemes of directorates will be encouraged.

1.8 4. Strategy:

4.1 Convergence is the key to success of Farm Pond +. The schemes of DA & FP, DoH, DSC&WD, DoF and DAH & VS will be converged to maximize the benefits. As is evident in duckery with fish, the benefits are immense if only taken up simultaneously, in the sense that the waste of one, becomes feed of others. Similarly micro irrigation in fruits and vegetables can reap larger profit if only pumping devices are incorporated. So for effective optimization of Farm pond+, coordination amongst the Directorates of Soil Conservation& WD/ Agriculture & FP/ Horticulture/ Fisheries/ AH&VS holds lot of importance. Implementation of the programme shall be undertaken in mission mode involving all the stake holders from block to state level.

4.2 A suitable mechanism will be worked out for convergence of different schemes with ST/SC, Forest, Environment and Climate Change / PR & DW departments.

4.3 Odisha Livelihoods Mission has adopted a focused strategy for farm livelihoods promotion involving components like capacity building which bring significant number of households under different livelihood / Agriculture extension interventions. In due course of time agencies promoting livelihood and marketing activities like OLM & ORMAS shall be entrusted to take up relevant activities for the farm pond beneficiaries.

4.4 In the present context, collectivization holds the key in value chain development and marketing of farm produce. The FP+ beneficiaries 7 will be encouraged to become members of Farmers Producers Organizations (FPOs) once the volume of operations increases. As an initial measure, small cluster of farm pond beneficiaries shall be targeted and encouraged to form FPGs which shall subsequently lead in

237

--- Page 239 ---

formation and incorporation of FPOs. Assistance for incorporation of FPOs shall be ensured for necessary central assistance for its formation and operation.
4.5 The abstract of the directorate wise interventions that can be taken up by a Farm pond beneficiary is as follows : Directorate/ Institution Activities Scheme Supply of pump sets Popularization of Agriculture Implements & Equipment Pulses/ Oilseeds/ Millets minikits NFSM/ Millet Mission Field demonstration NFSM Vegetable minikits Input Subsidy Scheme (State Plan)Fruit plants Input Subsidy Scheme (State Plan)Protected cultivation NHM under MIDH Micro-irrigation PMKSY Assistance for Agro-forestry Sub-Mission on Agroforestry (SMAF) Assistance for Integrated Farming System Rainfed Area Development (RAD)Input assistance Input Assistance to farmers for taking up fish farming Training on Pisciculture Assistance / Technical knowhow for fodder cultivation Support to farmers for seasonal fodder cultivation Duckery State Plan Scheme – Backyard Duckery Training State Plan Odisha Livelihood Mission Pisciculture and other agri- allied activities Assistance under Mo Upakari Bagicha OPELIP IFS through Pisciculture & bund plantation IFAD programmeEnvironment & Climate Change Sapling of Forest/ horticulture species Seedling Distribution scheme Agriculture & FP Horticulture Soil Conservation & WD Fisheries AH & VS * The above list is indicative only, the details of the scheme are appended at Annexure- vii.

Beneficiary Selection:

4.6.1 A beneficiary should have completed the Farm Pond or nearing completion under 5T initiative as a prerequisite for availing assistance under Farm Pond +.
4.6.2 Preference on selection of farm pond+ beneficiaries will be as follows a. Women /ST / SC b. Small / Marginal farmer c. Cultivable waste land / marginal land d. Sloppy / areas prone to erosion 
4.6.3 Cluster approach may be encouraged to have visible impacts for wider replication. Support will be given to those who wish to add one or more compatible farming component(s) to their existing farming systems. It should have the potential to introduce/merge at least one or more components /activities along with cropping system. Farm pond + Pisciculture Vegetable Minikits / Fruit planting materials Pulses / Oilseeds /Millets Minikits Forest species Seedling Distribution Pump sets / Micro Irrigation IFS under RAD / saplings SMAF Duckery / Poultry/Fodder cultivation.
4.6.4 Awareness campaigns in different gatherings at village/ GP level shall be taken up once in every month to educate FP beneficiaries on procedure for application to 

--- Page 240 ---

various assistance to be taken by them. The same may be collected by the field functionaries' viz., SCEW / VAW / HEW for further processing. The compiled beneficiary list shall be forwarded to respective block level officers for processing towards release of assistance. 
4.6.5 DSC&WD will share the list of the FP beneficiaries who would have completed/ nearing completion of FP at State/ District/ Block level with the field functionaries of all Directorates. 
4.6.6 If required changes / modifications in existing scheme guidelines will be carried out by respective Directorates with approval of competent authority. 
4.7 Targets under Farm Pond + The Directorates of SC & WD / A & FP / Horticulture / Fisheries/ AH & VS shall assign targets on different activities related to farm pond+ for encouraging integrated farming system in the ayacut / bund area / other income generating activities under the farm pond+. Preference to farm pond beneficiaries will be given by different Directorates/ Agencies / Departments. The targets assigned to Districts under different components shall be conveyed by respective Directorates / Agencies / Departments. 
District level officers shall meet every month to monitor the progress of Farm Pond+. The target to blocks under different component of FP+ shall be finalized for effective implementation and evaluate on block wise progress. The progress report shall be submitted by 5th of every succeeding month in the prescribed formats as appended at Annexure-viii. 
4.8.3 Block level: Block level officers of Agriculture / Horticulture / Fisheries / Animal Husbandry/ Forests/ PR & DW/ SC & ST and Soil Conservation are meeting every fortnight in the BTT meetings. All issues related to Farm Pond activities shall be discussed for suitable action in these meetings. The issues relating to online submission of application, training & capacity building of beneficiaries and other pertaining topics which need attention of higher authority shall be prepared and communicated. The progress reports shall be submitted by 5th of every month as per the prescribed formats to their respective District offices. 
4.8.4 The progress of implementation shall also be reviewed by senior officers of the department during their visits to districts. They will give feedback during different meetings. Monitoring of the programme should also be frequent both at field level and through different digital platforms. 
5. Reporting System 
5.1 At present, the block level officer of respective Directorates shall prepare the progress report in the prescribed format for submission to District level officer who

--- Page 241 ---

in turn compile and submit the same to the respective Directorates latest by 10th of every month. After compilation, the respective Directorate shall submit the copy of same to the Department of Agriculture & FE by 15th of every month for discussion in the State level committee constituted for the purpose. DSC&WD shall be the nodal 12 Directorate for monitoring, reporting, coordinating with all Directorates/ Departments. The Directorate of Soil Conservation will develop FP+ Portal within three months of issuance of these guidelines.
5.2 Reporting formats shall be developed by respective Directorates to capture relevant information from the field. Some indicative formats are attached at Annexure: viii.
6 Success Stories and Impact Evaluation
6.1 To popularize the concept of Farm Pond+ success stories will be collected from the field, documented and circulated for wider impact through print & electronic platforms. The success stories should include pre, mid and post photographs/ visuals showing the pre-conditions and post conditions before and after implementation of the programme. The Respective Directorates may choose progressive beneficiaries under farm pond + based on adoption of different components of farm pond+ for felicitation at state/district level Krushi Mahotsava and be encouraged to share their experiences with fellow farmers . The Department would facilitate exposure visits to such farm ponds for replication by other farmers from different regions.
6.2 For upgrading the operationalization of the programme, periodic impact studies shall be taken up. Impact evaluation of farm pond+ shall be taken up in every two years to assess the programme benefit in addressing the objectives. The modalities of the evaluation shall be in the context of change in socio-economic status, nutritional availability and system productivity/ sustainability. DSC&WD will finalise the suitable mechanism for periodic impact evaluation.
7 These guidelines shall be modified from time to time with inputs from different stake holders or as per the change of policy by Government.

--- Page 242 ---

Mission Shakti

Cultivation of Mushroom

Name of the Activity
Establishment of Mushroom Production unit

Name of the Scheme
MIDH(NHM)

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)
As per MIDH (NHM) guideline for project based proposals, any member of WSHG is eligible.

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details):
30ft x 20ft /No Electricity/480 Beds for 1,00,000 project.

Total Unit Cost(Project Cost)
Approx. Rs. 1,00,000/- to Rs. 15,00,000/-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity
40% of fixed cost of Bankable project

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail)
60% of the project (Bank loan basis)

Turn Over
Approx. Rs. 6,18,000/- Per Annum

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity
Approx. Rs. 1,00,000/- Per Annum

Process of release of subsidy
Back ended subsidy to the Subsidy Reserve Fund account form NHM

241

--- Page 243 ---

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

o The selected WSHG member can be a beneficiary as per MIDH (NHM) guideline.
o The Bankable project should be approved by the DMC (District Monitoring Committee) & Director of Horticulture as per MIDH(NHM) Guideline
o The back ended subsidy of 40% will be released to the Subsidy Reserve Account in the name of the beneficiary through PFMS.
o Model indicative estimate is enclosed.

242

--- Page 244 ---

SCHEME ON MUSHROOM CULTIVATION WITH CAPITAL INVESTMENT OF RUPEES ONE LAKH ONLY (RS. 1,00,000/-)

Mushroom cultivation is a profitable enterprise as there is a high demand of mushroom for its nutritional and medicinal value. The climatic condition of our state is quite favorable for growing paddy straw mushroom and oyster mushroom round the year. The main input, the paddy straw is plently available in the state. There is also no problem of availability of mushroom spawn bottles in the state. The marketing of fresh mushroom at consumers' door is gradually increasing day by day. The technique of mushroom cultivation is simple and can be easily available from OUAT. At present there are about 5000 mushroom farms in the state which proved the effectiveness of technology in creating opportunities for self-employment. Keeping in view of the above scenario, a model cultivation unit has been proposed.

OBJECTIVE

1. To produce 480 beds of paddy straw mushroom in 2months or 450 bags of Oyster mushroom in 2 months with the yield of 480kg and 675kg of paddy straw mushroom and oyster mushroom respectively.
2. To get income of Rs. 22,801/- from paddy straw and Rs.14,951/- from oyster mushroom respectively in two months.

DURATION OF THE PROJECT: PERMANENT

FIXED COST

A. LAND AND BUILDING

There will be one shed of size 30'x20' for mushroom cultivation covered all side by shadenet and gunny cloths in order to maintain humidity and percolation of light and air. Tiers should be made up of bamboo. There will be two soaking tanks of size 5'x4'x3' for soaking of straw bundles. Each paddy straw mushroom bed and oyster bag will require 10 sq.ft and 4sq.ft area respectively.

B. EQUIPMENTS AND MACHINERIES

1. Chaff cutter: Required to make the straw into suitable sizes before soaking in water. It can be done either by hand operated or electrically operated chaff

243

--- Page 245 ---

cutter. Two chaff cutters are required for the project.
2. Sprayer machine: It will provide water to mushroom beds/ bags inside cropping room.

Action Plan
i. The shed will be constructed within two months after sanction of the loan.
ii. Purchase of equipment mentioned earlier will be made within a month after completion of civil con-struction.
iii. Production will be started within another month.

RAW MATERIALS

The following materials are required for paddy straw mushroom from March to October and oyster mushroom from November to February. Within an area of 600 sq.ft, 480 beds of paddy straw mushroom (60 x 2 tier x 2 times x 2 months) and 450 bags of oyster mushroom (150x 3tier) can be raised within 2 months.

PADDY STRAW MUSHROOM (480 BEDS IN TWO MONTHS)

Sl. No.
1
2
3
4

Items
Straw
Spawn
Pulse powder/ wheat bran
Labour

Rate
10kg/bed X 480 beds
One bottleX 480 beds
200g/ bed X 480 beds
1no./20beds

Quantity
4800kg
480bottles
96kg
24nos.

OYSTER MUSHROOM (450 BAGS IN TWO MONTHS)

Sl. No.
1
2
3
4
5

Items
Straw
Spawn
Polythene bags
Wheat
Labour

Rate
1.5kg/bag X 450 bags
One bottle/ bag X450
50bags/kg for 450 bags
200g/bag X 450 bags
1no./25bags

Quantity
675kg
450bottles
9kg
90kg
18nos.

244

--- Page 246 ---

BUDGET

A. FIXED COST

Sl. No. | Particulars | Size/ No./ Qty. | Rate (Rs.) | Amount (Rs.)

1. | Bamboo based two tier low cost production shed (30’ x 20’= 600 sq.ft) | One | 135/- | 81,000/-

2. | Straw soaking tank (5’ x 4’ x 3’) with platform | 2 | 7,500/- | 15,000/-

3. | Chaff cutter | 2 | 1,000/- | 2,000/-

4. | Sprayer machine | One | 1500/- | 1500/-

9. | Miscellaneous expenses | - | - | 500/-

Total | | | | 1,00,000/-

B. RECURRING EXPENDITURE (480 BEDS OF PADDY STRAW MUSHROOM FOR 2 MONTHS) WILL BE BORNE BY THE BENEFICIARY

Sl. No. | Particulars | Size/ No./Qnt. | Rate (Rs.) | Amount (Rs.)

1. | Straw | 4800kg | 4/- | 19,200/-

2. | Spawn | 480bottles | 12/- | 5,760/-

3. | Wheat bran | 96 kg | 20/- | 1,920/-

4. | Labour | 24 Labour | 280/day | 6720/-

5. | Misc. exp. (Cost of chemicals for treatment of straw) | | | 300/-

Total | | | | 33,900/-

C. RECURRING EXPENDITURE (450 BAGS OF OYSTER MUSHROOM FOR 2 MONTHS) WILL BE BORNE BY THE BENEFICIARY

Sl. No. | Particulars | Size/ No./Qnt. | Rate (Rs.) | Amount (Rs.)

1. | Straw | 675kg | 4/- | 2,700/-

2. | Spawn | 450bottles | 12/- | 5,400/-

3. | Polythene bag | 9kg | 180/- | 1,620/-

4. | Wheat | 90 kg | 25/- | 2,250/-

4. | Labour | 18 Labour | 280/day | 5,040/-

245

--- Page 247 ---

5.	Misc. exp. (Cost of chemicals for pasteurization of straw)	390/-
Total	17,400/-

YIELD AND ANTICIPATED INCOME PER MONTH (CULTIVATION)

1. YIELD

Paddy straw mushroom : 1.0 kg/bed
From 480 beds : 480 kg

Oyster Mushroom : 1.5kg/bag
From 450bags : 675kg

2. INCOME

Paddy straw mushroom
Sales Price = Rs.120/- per kg
Gross Income = 480 x 120 = Rs. 57,600/-

Oyster mushroom
Sales Price = Rs.50/- per kg
Gross Income = 675 x 50 = Rs. 33,750/-

3. NET INCOME

Paddy straw mushroom

Rs.57,600/- – (Recurring Rs.33,900/- + depreciation @ 10% of Rs. 66,100 (i.e. Rs.1102/-) + interest (10%) for 1,00,000 (i.e. Rs.1,666) = Rs. 20,932 /-

Net Income per month = Rs 10,466/-

Oyster Mushroom

Rs. 33,750/- – (Recurring Rs.17,400/- + depreciation @ 10% of Rs. 66,100(i.e. Rs.1102/-) + interest (10%) for 1,00,000 (i.e. Rs.1,666) = Rs.13,582/-

Net Income per month = Rs 6,791/-

246

--- Page 248 ---

The scheme is technically feasible and economically viable.

Hybrid Vegetable Cultivation

Name of the Activity
Hybrid Vegetable Cultivation

Name of the Scheme
MIDH(NHM)

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)
Mentioned in the guideline

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.)/ Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details):
The beneficiary should take up the scheme in her own land

Total Unit Cost
Rs. 50,000/- per ha (Hybrid Vegetable)

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity
Rs. 20,000/- per ha (Hybrid Vegetable)

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail)
Rs. 30,000/- per ha (Hybrid Vegetable)

Turn Over
Rs. 2.0 lakh per ha

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity
Income depends upon the proposed area of Cultivation, crop selected, local demand for the produce.

Process of release of subsidy
DBT (Processed through Hortnet)

247

--- Page 249 ---

GUIDELINES FOR HYBRID VEGETABLE CULTIVATION UNDER MIDH (NHM)

1. Vegetable crops like chilli, tomato (preferably indeterminate type), brinjal, cabbage, cauliflower, capsicum, broccoli, lettuce will be taken up in the farmer's field. Any other crop which is preferred by the farmers and suitable for the area may be taken up if felt necessary.
2. At the time of selection of beneficiaries, suitability of soil, assured irrigation sources, interest and capability of the farmers shall be taken into consideration. Advanced farmers should be given preference.
3. Offseason cultivation should be ensured for better marketing and profitability by selecting suitable variety in consultation with field officials.
4. The selected WSHG member will raise the seedling herself, the crop and the variety should be recommended by concerned DDH / ADH. The invoice regarding purchase of hybrid seeds from registered seed dealer having license for sale of seeds in respective districts of Odisha or throughout the state of Odisha should be uploaded along with the seed packet showing the batch no. and variety etc. in the HORTNET while processing the file. The farmer shall be solely responsible for the quality of seed/seedling raised by him.
5. The beneficiaries should be made aware about package of practices of vegetable cultivation including IPM / INM methods. Farmers should be motivated for cultivation in protected structures or with mulching and drip irrigation. KVK scientists should be involved in the operations for better results.
6. Subsidy is permissible for a minimum area of 0.1 ha and up to maximum 2.0 ha for an individual beneficiary.
7. Subsidy will be paid to the farmers/beneficiary account only as per DBT norm. Farmer should submit the total cost of cultivation and it should be approved by the AHO and ADH / DDH before uploading in Hortnet for calculation of subsidy @ 40% of cost of cultivation i.e. Rs. 50,000/- per Ha.
8. The uploaded documents should be verified at the District level. DDH/ADH shall be solely responsible for verification of documents and any discrepancy thereof.

248

--- Page 250 ---

GPS photographs including other relevant documents like Invoice, Seed Packet, Expenditure certificate etc. should be uploaded in the Hortnet portal for release of subsidy.

Floriculture

Name of the Activity  
Floriculture

Name of the Scheme  
MIDH(NHM)

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)  
Mentioned in the guideline

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.)/ Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details):  
Mentioned in the guideline

Total Unit Cost  
Rs. 1.00 lakh per ha (Cut flowers)  
Rs. 1.50 lakh per ha (Bulbous flowers)  
Rs. 0.4 lakh per ha (Loose flower)

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity  
40% of the cost for S&M farmers and 25% of cost to other category farmers (Floriculture)

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail)  
60% of the cost for S&M farmers and 75% of cost to other category farmers (Floriculture)

Turn Over  
Rs. 3.0 lakh per ha

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity  
Income depends upon the proposed area of Cultivation, crop selected, local demand for the produce. On an average Rs. 1.50 lakh per ha

249

--- Page 251 ---

Process of release of subsidy          DBT (Processed through Hortnet)

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

PROVISION FOR PROMOTION OF FLORICULTURE UNDER NHM

Flower cultivation can be taken up both in open condition and under protected structures. Cultivation of flowers in open condition is preferred for loose flowers like marigold, jasmine, crossandra, etc.; cut flowers like rose, gerbera, golden rod etc. and bulbous flowers like gladioli, tuberose, etc. However, protected structure is preferred forcultivation of high value flowers like rose, gerbera, lilium, anthodium, carnation, orchids, etc.

1. The WSHG member having minimum and maximum area of 0.04 ha and 2ha respectively should be selected for promotion of flower cultivation under MIDH.

2. Any farmer who has received assistance once should not be allowed to avail assistance for the same structure during the next three years.

3. The farmer should ideally be imparted training before undertaking flower cultivation in the established training institutes under this Directorate and other institutes like KVKs under OUAT/ CHES

4. Flower cultivation both in open and protected condition should be promoted in cluster approach for ease of doing business in flower. The cultivation sites should preferably be chosen in and around townships for ensuring timely disposal of flowers.

5. The proposed site of the beneficiary will be verified on ground by the HEW/HO and AHO/ AAE wherever required.

6. The selected location should be near a market and should be connected by a good road or rail.

7. The soil should be well drained with gentle slope and near neutral PH for promotion of flower cultivation.

8. The site should have adequate irrigation facilities or else should have enough space to establish irrigation infrastructures (sprinkler/ drip) to meet the requirement of water during flower cultivation

9. The farmer beneficiary will have his own choice to procure planting material preferably from NHB accredited nurseries/ registered seed firm/ community nurseries and all technical support should be provided in procurement of Quality Planting Material by the field functionaries.

10. Farmer beneficiaries interested for raising nursery of their own may be

--- Page 252 ---

motivated to take up the same and all necessary technical support should be provided to get license from the Directorate of Horticulture.

11. Subsidy will be paid to the farmers / beneficiary account only as per DBT norm. Farmer will be required to submit the total cost of cultivation duly countersigned by AHO and approved by ADH/DDH concerned before uploading in Hortnet portal.

12. GPS photographs including other relevant documents like Invoice, Expenditure certificate etc. are required to be uploaded in the Hortnet portal for release of subsidy to the beneficiary account through Online / PFMS.

Assistance for Cultivation of Flowers under Open Condition (Max. upto 2 ha.)

Sl. No.

Crop

Category of farmers

Area (ha)

Total Cost (Rs.in Lakh)

Assistance from MIDH (Rs.in Lakh)

1

Cut Flower

SF/MF

1

1.00

0.4

Others

1

1.00

0.25

2

Bulbous Flowers

SF/MF

1

1.5

0.6

Others

1

1.5

0.375

3

Loose Flowers

SF/MF

1

0.4

0.16

Others

1

0.4

0.10

251

--- Page 253 ---

Assistance for Protected Structures: (As per MIDH Norm up to 4000 m²) 

Sl. No.  
Type of Structure  

A  
Greenhouse with Fan Pad System  

Up to area 500 m²  
>500 m² up to 1008 m²  
>1008 m² up to 2080 m²  
>2080 m² up to 4000 m²  

B  
Naturally Ventilated Poly house (NVPH), tubular structure  

Up to area 500 m²  
>500 m² up to 1008 m²  
>1008 m² up to 2080 m²  
>2080 m² up to 4000 m²  

C  
Shade Net House Tubular structure  

D  
Bamboo Shadenet Structure  

Size Range  
Cost norm Rs./per m²  
50% subsidy (Rs./ m²) as per MIDH  

Size Range  
Cost norm Rs./per m²  
50% subsidy (Rs./ m²) as per MIDH  

1650.00  
1465.00  
1420.00  
1400.00  

1060.00  
935.00  
890.00  
844.00  

710.00  

360.00  

825.00  
732.50  
710.00  
700.00  

530.00  
467.50  
445.00  
422.00  

355.00  

180.00  

Assistance for Cultivation of Flowers in Protected Structures: (As per MIDH Norm up to 4000 m²)  

Sl No.  
Flower  
Cost norm (Rs./ m²)  
50% subsidy (Rs./ m²) as per MIDH  

1  
Anthurium & Orchids  
700.00  
350.00  

2  
Carnation and Gerbera  
610.00  
305.00  

3  
Rose and Lilium  
426.00  
213.00  

252

--- Page 254 ---

Block Level Horticulture Nursery

Name of the Activity
Establishment of Block Level Horticultural Nursery

Name of the Scheme
MIDH

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs 
under the said activity (if specific)
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / 
Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital 
(if any then explain in details)
Owned land or existing Block Level Horticulture Nursery as per suitability or any Govt. Land having irrigation facility.

Total Unit Cost
-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to 
SHGs under the activity
To provide assistance as per MIDH norm for establishment of poly-tunnel wherever necessity for offseason raising of seedlings.

Beneficiary Contribution 
(if any then explain in detail)
NA

Turn Over
Approx. Rs.20000-30000/- per 10,000 no. of seedlings

Beneficiary Net income per year /
per season / activity
Approx. Rs.9000-12000 per 10,000 no. of seedlings

Process of release of subsidy
NA


BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

o The Horticulture field functionaries of the concerned block will orient the selected WSHGs of their area, guide them regarding the type of crop, variety and train them about the package & practices of seedling raising including IPM/INM methods.

o The selection of site should be done by the WSHG keeping in mind all the criteria mentioned herein above. They can select their owned land or existing Block Level Horticulture Nursery as per suitability or any Govt. Land having irrigation facility. There should be a provision for an agreement to be made with the WSHG if they are willing to utilize the Block Level Horticulture Nursery / Govt. Land.

253

--- Page 255 ---

o	The WSHGs will purchase the seeds, preferably hybrid varieties from any registered seed dealer. They may utilize their existing revolving fund for purchase of seed.
o	The WSHG will prepare the land, nursery beds and sow the seeds under guidance of the horticulture field functionaries of concerned block.
o	After successful raising of seedlings, the WSHG can sell them as per the approved cost of the seedling. They will maintain a register at their level to keep an account of the number of seedlings raised & sold. They will also provide bill to the farmer who purchase seedlings from them mentioning the name of the crop, variety and quantity of seedlings purchased.

254

--- Page 256 ---

Agri-ventures by supplyingFarm Machineries  
(Rice Sheller)

Name of the Activity 
Agri-ventures by supplying farm Machineries  
(Rice Sheller)

Name of the Scheme 
NFSM

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific) 
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details): 
20ft x 15ft Sq. ft. Space /Electricity 3 Phase

Total Unit Cost 
Rs. 3,70,000/-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity 
Rs. 3,12,000/- (2019 – 20)  
Rs. 3,50,000/- (2021 – 22)

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail) 
Rs. 58,000/- (2019 – 20)  
Rs. 20,000/- (2020 – 21)

Turn Over 
Rs. 3,75,000/-

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity 
Rs. 65,000/-

255

--- Page 257 ---

Process of release of subsidy       Through DBT in Farm Mechanization Portal

THE BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE
1. After selection of WSHG at District level/Block level, the Executive Engineer of the district will upload the block wise target to AAE/ AEE in the farm mechanization portal.
2. Then the AAE of the concerned block facilitate the WSHG for online registration for procurement of the rice sheller in DBT mode.
3. After procurement of the rice sheller by the WSHG the cost of rice sheller will be released to the Bank A/c of the WSHG directly through DBT from fund placed to the Development Engineer, OFMRDC, Bhubaneswar under NFSM (Rice) 2019-20 and 2020-21.
4. The Development Engineer, OFMRDC, Bhubaneswar will make arrangement for placing the required funds for 60 Rice sheller @ Rs. 3,70,000 /- out of the funds placed from NFSM during 2019-20 and 2020-21. For 2019-20, cost of Rice sheller is Rs. 3,12,000/- (scheme share) + Rs. 58,000 /- (SHG Share) and for 2020-21 scheme share is Rs. 3,50,000/- and SHG share is Rs. 20,000/- as per the approved cost of GoI.
5. Thereafter, the AEE & AAE will make trial of the unit at the WSHG level. The WSHG members will conduct the 1st capacity building training for all the members of the group by the help of AAE/ AAO of the Block.
6. The Secretary of the WSHG group will submit the bills / vouchers/geo tagged photographs of the 1st capacity building training to the AAE of the concerned block. After which a sum of Rs. 2,500 /- will be released to the Bank account of the SHG by the EE of the district through DBT after receive the bills/ vouchers from AAE.
7. 2 Nos. of capacity building training will be conducted by the WSHGs involving the AAE/ AAO for which as sum of Rs. 5,000 /- will be released to the WSHGs.
8. The EE will submit the MPR to the DA & FP (O) on the 1st week of each month regarding the amount released to the WSHGs towards procurement of Rice Sheller and capacity building training conducted.

c) Leasing of land is not required in case of an entrepreneur if the land stands in the name of his/her spouse, but the consent of the spouse is required in such cases.

256

--- Page 258 ---

2. Building: Only those newly constructed buildings (civil construction for office, store room, working room, pack house, sorting-grading house, labour shed, room for machinery, pump house, protected structures, sheds, barbed wire / solar fence) specifically required for the project erected at the site after issue of Go Ahead Letter will qualify for subsidy. Dwelling houses, quarters used for residential purposes, guard room, RCC/ Masonry compound wall and internal road will not qualify for the subsidy. Worker hut/ Labour shed shall be included as Capital Investment for release of CIS which will be limited to Rs.6000/-per unit as per NABARD norm. 

3. Project Report: The cost of preparation of Project Report will be treated as a Capital Investment and will qualify for CIS as a part of the cost of the project. The admissible cost of Project Report preparation for availing subsidy is limited to 1% of the total project cost. 

4. Electricity and Water Supply installations: The cost of electrical installations including transformer, generator/ inverter, pond / tank / well, bore well / tube well, or any other water body as a source of irrigation, pumps, micro irrigation installations, other equipment used in irrigation are eligible for availing CIS provided that subsidy from any other source is not claimed on any of the items. 

5. Plant & Machinery: The value of plant and machinery as erected at Factory site or on the farm will be taken into account which includes the cost of productive equipment, such as machineries, tools, implements, jigs, dies and moulds etc. Transport charges, loading, unloading charges, demurrage, insurance premium, the cost of plants, trees, birds, animals, post-harvest management; and such other items as may be included from time to time, provided that subsidy from any other source is not claimed on any of the items.

6. Insurance: Insurance of capital assets of the CAE unit such as infrastructure, machineries, livestock etc. shall be mandatory and the value of insurance premium for one year will be considered as capital investment. Items those are not being insured by the Insurance Companies (i.e. broiler & layer birds, fishes / prawns, poly houses, fishery ponds) are to be excluded from the mandatory list of insurance coverage.

257

--- Page 259 ---

Agri-ventures by supplyingFarm Machineries  
(Mini Dal Mill)

Name of the Activity  
Agri-ventures by supplying farm Machineries  
(Mini Dal Mill)

Name of the Scheme  
NFSM

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)  
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of  
Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital  
(if any then explain in details):  
12ft x 12ft Sq. ft. Space /Electricity Single Phase

258

--- Page 260 ---

Total Unit Cost         Rs. 36,363/- (OFMRDC Model)
Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs          Rs. 36,363/- (Full cost)
under the activity

Beneficiary Contribution                                      Nil
(if any then explain in detail)
Turn Over                                                               Rs. 66,630/-

Beneficiary Net income per year /                         Rs. 32,000/-
per season / activity

Process of release of subsidy          Through DBT in Farm Mechanization Portal

THE BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. After selection of WSHG at District level/Block level, the Executive Engineer of the district will upload the block wise target to AAE/ AEE in the farm mechanisation portal.
2. Then the AAE of the concerned block facilitate the WSHG for online registration for procurement of the mini dal mil in DBT mode.
3. After procurement of the mini Dal mill by the SHG the cost of mini Dal mill will be released to the Bank A/c of the WSHG directly through DBT from fund placed to the Development Engineer, OFMRDC, Bhubaneswar under NFSM (Pulses) 2019-20 and 2020-21.
4. The Development Engineer, OFMRDC, Bhubaneswar will make arrangement for placing the required funds for 270 Nos. of Mini Dal Mill @Rs. 36,363/- (OFMRDC Model) out of the funds placed from NFSM during 2019-20 and 2020-21.
5. Thereafter, the AEE & AAE will make trial of the unit at the WSHG level. The WSHG members will conduct the 1st capacity building training for all the members of the group by the help of AAE/ AAO of the Block.
6. The Secretary of the WSHG group will submit the bills / vouchers/geo tagged photographs of the 1st capacity building training to the AAE of the concerned

259

--- Page 261 ---

block. After which a sum of Rs. 2,500 /- will be released to the Bank account of the SHG by the EE of the district through DBT after receive the bills/ vouchers from AAE.
7. 2 Nos. of capacity building training will be conducted by the WSHGs involving the AAE/ AAO for which as sum of Rs. 5,000 /- will be released to the SHGs.
8. The EE will submit the MPR to the DA & FP (O) on the 1st week of each month regarding the amount released to the WSHGs towards procurement of Mini Dal Mill and capacity building training conducted.

260

--- Page 262 ---

Agri-ventures by supplying Farm Machineries  
(Ragi Thresher)

Name of the Activity: Agri-ventures by supplying farm Machineries (Ragi Thresher)

Name of the Scheme: Odisha Millets Mission

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific): Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021 & 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details): 10 ft x 6ft x 10 ft Space (Cu. Ft)/Electricity Single Phase

Total Unit Cost: Rs. 1,12,800/-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to WSHGs under the activity: Rs. 1,12,800/- (One time grant full cost)

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail): Nil

Turn Over: Rs. 1,08,000/- /Annum (90 Days* 6 hours Per Day*Rs.200 Per hour)

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity: Rs. 16,200/- Per Season

Process of release of subsidy: NA

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. After selection of FPO/CBO/WSHG by the committee and due approval by the Collector cum Chairman ATMA, a tri partite agreement will be signed between the selected FPO/CBO/WSHG, FA and AAO/ BAO/ CDAO cum PD, ATMA (as applicable).
2. The CDAO cum PD, ATMA will place order the empanelled machine suppliers for installation at suitable place desired by the selected FPO/CBO/WSHG.

261

--- Page 263 ---

3. Programme Secretariat will organize training of trainers on the operational modalities of the processing units supported by machine manufacturer.
4. After the training of the FPO/CBO/WSHG, handholding support and business plan development on the operationalisation shall be given by the Facilitating Agency and Programme Secretariat.
5. A regular monitoring shall be done by Facilitating Agency. Monthly status on processing machine operations shall be reported to CDAO cum PD ATMA through AAO/BAO.
6. A quarterly monitoring shall be done by Programme Secretariat and AAO/BAO

262

--- Page 264 ---

Agri-ventures by supplying Farm Machineries  
(Ragi 2 Deck Grader-cum-cleaner Units)

Name of the Activity  
Agri-ventures by supplying farm Machineries  
(Ragi 2 Deck Grader-cum-cleaner Units)

Name of the Scheme  
Odisha Millets Mission

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)  
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of  
Department for A & FE to be followed.  

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital  
(if any then explain in details)  
40ft x 30ft x 20ft (Cu. Ft Space)/Electricity- Single Phase  

Total Unit Cost  
Rs. 2,07,500/- to Rs. 4,62,020/-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs  
under the activity  
Rs. 2,07,500/- to Rs. 4,62,020/-(One time grant full cost)

Beneficiary Contribution  
(if any then explain in detail)  
Nil  

Turn Over  
Rs. 4,00,000/- (100 Days* 4 hours Per Day*1000 Rs. Per hour/hiring charge)

Beneficiary Net income per year / 
per season / activity  
Rs. 1,20,000/- Per Season

Process of release of subsidy  
(if any then explain in details)  
NA  

263

--- Page 265 ---

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. After selection of FPO/CBO/WSHG by the committee and due approval by the Collector cum Chairman ATMA, a tri partite agreement will be signed between the selected FPO/CBO/WSHG, FA and AAO/ BAO/ CDAO cum PD, ATMA (as applicable).
2. The CDAO cum PD, ATMA will place order to the empanelled machine suppliers for installation at suitable place desired by the selected FPO/CBO/WSHG.
3. Programme Secretariat will organize training of trainers on the operational modalities of the processing units supported by machine manufacturer.
4. After the training of the FPO/CBO/WSHG, handholding support and business plan development on the operationalisation shall be given by the Facilitating Agency and Programme Secretariat.
5. A regular monitoring shall be done by Facilitating Agency. Monthly status on processing machine operations shall be reported to CDAO cum PD ATMA through AAO/BAO.
6. A quarterly monitoring shall be done by Programme Secretariat and AAO/BAO

Agri-ventures by supplying farm Machineries
(Ragi Pulveriser)

Name of the Activity
Agri-ventures by supplying farm Machineries (Ragi Pulveriser)

Name of the Scheme
Odisha Millets Mission

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021 & 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details)
40ft x 30ft x 20ft (Cu. Ft Space)/Electricity- Single Phase

Total Unit Cost
Rs. 60,000/- to Rs. 70,000/-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to WSHGs under the activity
Rs. 60,000/- to Rs. 70,000/-(One time grant full cost)

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail)
Nil

264

--- Page 266 ---

Turn Over Rs. 90,000/- (240 Days* 5 hours Per Day*75 Per hour/Rs. hiring charge)

Beneficiary Net income per year / Rs. 27,000/- Per Season
per season / activity

Process of release of subsidy NA
(if any then explain in details)

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. After selection of FPO/CBO/WSHG by the committee and due approval by the Collector cum Chairman ATMA, a tri partite agreement will be signed between the selected FPO/CBO/WSHG, FA and AAO/ BAO/ CDAO cum PD, ATMA (as applicable).
2. The CDAO cum PD, ATMA will place order to the empanelled machine suppliers for installation at suitable place desired by the selected FPO/CBO/WSHG.
3. Programme Secretariat will organize the training of trainers on the operational modalities of the processing units supported by machine manufacturer.
4. After the training of the FPO/CBO/WSHG, handholding support and business plan development on the operationalisation shall be given by the Facilitating Agency and Programme Secretariat.
5. A regular monitoring shall be done by Facilitating Agency. Monthly status on processing machine operations shall be reported to CDAO cum PD ATMA through AAO/BAO.
6. A quarterly monitoring shall be done by Programme Secretariat and AAO/BAO

265

--- Page 267 ---

(Through Supply of Rice puffing machine)

Name of the Activity
Livelihood support through supply of Rice puffing machine.

Name of the Scheme
Popularisation of Agricultural Implements(State Sector)

Procedure for selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of land (ha) / Space (Sq Ft) / Electricity ( 3-Phase or 2-Phase / Working Capital (if Any)
120 Sq.ft. Space/ Electricity-Single Phase

Total Unit Cost
Rs. 50000/- ( Indicative cost)

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity
60% admissible subsidy on the approved Indicative cost.

WSHG Contribution if any
(1) Space 120 Sq. Ft. and a permanent structure building.
(2) Provision of Electricity to the building.
(3) Rest Amount (Full cost-Eligible subsidy).
(4) Working Capital for raw material.

Turn Over
Rs.2.30 Lakh/Annum

Beneficiary net income per year/ per season / activity
Rs.0.72 Lakh/Annum

Process of release of subsidy
DBT mode (WSHG Bank Account)


BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. The WSHGs will be selected through the Expression of Interest called by the CDPO and shortlisted by the Block Level Selection Committee.

2. The WSHG will apply for the rice puffing machine through separate interface for WSHGs in FM-DBT portal. After on line generation of the Go ahead/Permit, they have to download the permit and the full cost of the machine will be transferred through their registered WSHG Bank account to the dealer of the chosen machinery. Thereafter, they will move to the dealer and bring the

266

--- Page 268 ---

machinery for their use.
3. The Dealer along with the members of WSHG will take a GPS enabled Photograph along with the machinery at the ownership location of WSHG and upload in the DBT portal. The subsidy will be released as per the existing procedure for subsidy release of the Individual farmers in the DBT portal.
4. Then the members of WSHG will mobilize unskilled labour/members of the group for collecting the raw material to be used for processing. On hiring basis in their locality the machine may generate income for the group subsequently.

267

--- Page 269 ---

(through Supply of Flattened rice mill)

Name of the Activity
Livelihood support through supply of flattened rice mill

Name of the Scheme
Popularization of Agricultural Implements(State Sector)

Procedure for selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of land (ha) / Space (Sq Ft) / Electricity (3-Phase or 2-Phase / Working Capital (if Any)
300 Sq.ft. Space/ Electricity-Three Phase

Total Unit Cost
(Approx.-Rs.200000.00) subject to SLTC approval of the make, model & Indicative cost as to be fixed by State Level Price Monitoring Committee

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity
60% admissible subsidy on the approved Indicative cost.

Beneficiary Contribution if any
(1) Space 300 Sq. Ft. and a permanent structure building.
(2) Provision of 3ph. Electricity to the building.
(3) Rest Amount (Full cost-Eligible subsidy).
(4) Working Capital for raw material.

Turn Over
Rs.1.30 Lakh/Annum

Beneficiary net income per year/ per season / activity
Rs.0.72 Lakh/Annum

Process of release of subsidy
DBT mode (WSHG Bank Account)

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. The WSHGs will be selected through the Expression of Interest called by the CDPO and shortlisted by the Block Level Selection Committee .The WSHG will apply for the flattened rice mill through separate interface for WSHGs in FM-DBT portal.

2. After on line generation of the Go ahead/Permit, they have to download the Permit and the full cost of the machine will be transferred through their registered WSHG Bank account to the Dealer of the chosen machinery.

3. Thereafter, they will move to the Dealer and bring the machinery for their use.

268

--- Page 270 ---

The Dealer along with the members of WSHG will take a GPS enabled Photograph along with the machinery at the ownership location of WSHG and upload in the DBT portal.

4. The subsidy will be released as per the existing procedure for subsidy release of the Individual farmers in the DBT portal.

5. Then the members of WSHG will mobilise unskilled labour/members of the group in collecting the raw material to be used for processing. On hiring basis in their locality the machine may generate income for the group subsequently.

269

--- Page 271 ---

(through Supply of Mini Rice Mill)

Name of the Activity
Livelihood support through supply of mini rice mill

Name of the Scheme
Popularization of Agricultural Implements(State Sector)

Procedure for selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.20218. 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of land (ha) / Space (Sq Ft) / Electricity (3-Phase or 2-Phase / Working Capital (if Any)
120 Sq.ft. Space/ Electricity-Single Phase

Total Unit Cost
Rs.40000.00 (Indicative cost)

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity
60% admissible subsidy on the approved Indicative cost.

Beneficiary Contribution if any
(1) Space 120 Sq. Ft. and a permanent structure building.
(2) Provision of Electricity to the building.
(3) Rest Amount (Full cost-Eligible subsidy).
(4) Working Capital for raw material.

Turn Over
Rs.1.75 Lakh/Annum

Beneficiary net income per year/ per season / activity
Rs.0.50 Lakh/Annum

Process of release of subsidy
DBT mode (WSHG Bank Account)

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. The WSHGs will be selected through the Expression of Interest called by the CDPO and shortlisted by the Block Level Selection Committee .The WSHG will apply for the mini rice mill through separate interface for WSHGs in FM-DBT portal.

2. After on line generation of the Go ahead/Permit, they have to download the Permit and the full cost of the machine will be transferred through their registered WSHG Bank account to the Dealer of the chosen machinery.

270

--- Page 272 ---

3. Thereafter, they will move to the Dealer and bring the machinery for their use. The Dealer along with the members of WSHG will take a GPS enabled Photograph along with the machinery at the ownership location of WSHG and upload in the DBT portal.
4. The subsidy will be released as per the existing procedure for subsidy release of the Individual farmers in the DBT portal.
5. Then the members of WSHG will mobilise unskilled labour/members of the group in collecting the raw material to be used for processing. On hiring basis in their locality the machine may generate income for the group subsequently.

271

--- Page 273 ---

(through Supply of Power Paddy cleaner-cum-Grader)

Name of the Activity
Livelihood support through supply of PowerPaddy cleaner-cum-Grader

Name of the Scheme
Popularisation of Agricultural Implements(State Sector)

Procedure for selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of land (ha) / Space (Sq Ft) / Electricity (3-Phase or 2-Phase / Working Capital (if Any)
120 Sq.ft. Space/ Electricity-Single Phase

Total Unit Cost
Rs 73198.00

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity
50% admissible subsidy on the approved Indicative cost.

Beneficiary Contribution if any 
(1) Space 300 Sq. Ft. and a permanent structure building.
(2) Provision of Electricity to the building.
(3) Rest Amount (Full cost-Eligible subsidy).
(4) Working Capital for raw material.

Turn Over
Rs.0.88 Lakh/Annum

Beneficiary net income per year/ per season / activity
Rs0.36 Lakh/Annum

Process of release of subsidy
DBT mode (WSHG Bank Account)

272

--- Page 274 ---

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. The WSHGs will be selected through the Expression of Interest called by the CDPO and shortlisted by the Block Level Selection Committee. The WSHG will apply for the power paddy cleaner-cum-grader through separate interface for WSHGs in FM-DBT portal. After on line generation of the Go ahead/ Permit, they have to download the Permit and the full cost of the Machine will be transferred through their registered WSHG Bank account to the Dealer of the chosen machinery.

2. Thereafter, they will move to the Dealer and bring the machinery for their use. The Dealer along with the members of WSHG will take a GPS enabled Photograph along with the machinery at the ownership location of WSHG and upload in the DBT portal.
3. The subsidy will be released as per the existing procedure for subsidy release of the Individual farmers in the DBT portal.
4. Then the members of WSHG will mobilise unskilled labour/members of the group in collecting the raw material to be used for processing. On hiring basis in their locality the machine may generate income for the group subsequently.

273

--- Page 275 ---

Millets on Wheels

Name of the Activity
Millets On Wheels

Name of the Scheme
Odisha Millets Mission

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details):

Total Unit Cost
Rs. 6,00,000/-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to WSHGs under the activity
Rs. 4,00,000/- (in 2 phases)

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail)
Rs. 2,00,000/-

Turn Over
Rs. 7,50,000/- (300 Days* 100 Plates Per Day*Rs. 25 Per Plate)

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity
Rs. 1,50,000/- Per Year

Process of release of subsidy(if any then explain in details)
50% will be released in first phase & after 100% utilisation of the previous fund 2nd installment will be released

274

--- Page 276 ---

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

The following are the eligibility criteria for WSHG Federations / WSHGs: 

1. The group / federation must be at least 2 years old. 
2. Must be located within the Block area where the proposed enterprise is to be established. 
3. Members must be literate; can read and write Odia and have a basic understanding of calculations. 
4. Must not be a defaulter to any bank loan. 
5. SHGs having prior experience in commercial food processing and marketing will be preferred. 
6. Must arrange infrastructure such as land, building, vehicle, electricity, water supply etc. to obtainother support from Odisha Millets Mission. 
7. Must be willing to arrange the working capital / running costs to run the unit. 
8. Must be willing to pay the monthly electricity, water bill and any other applicable taxes & other dues. 
9. Must be willing to agree to the terms laid down and sign an agreement with District level officers of Mission Shakti and Odisha Millets Mission. 
10. Groups having licenses from Government Institutes, FSSAI certification and food business license will be preferred. 
11. The WSHG / WSHG Federation must be willing to contribute the cost for arranging a vehicle along withits registration in the name of the WSHG Federation / WSHG. Support from Odisha Millets Mission shall be provided on arrangement of vehicle only. 

ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF STAKEHOLDERS

1. DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD PRODUCTION (DAFP)

The Directorate of Agriculture and Food Production will provide funds from Odisha Millets Mission for establishment of the ‘Millet Shakti Tiffin centres’ and ‘Millet Shakti on Wheels’ as stipulated under the budget of the programme. 

2. MISSION SHAKTI DEPARTMENT

The Mission Shakti Dept. shall perform the following roles: 

a. Will identify WSHG Federations / WSHGs suited for running the units

275

--- Page 277 ---

successfully.
b. Will facilitate bank credit linkage of WSHGs to meet the working capital requirement.

3. PROGRAMME SECRETARIAT (WASSAN)

The Programme Secretariat of Odisha Millets Mission shall perform the following roles:
a. Provide training and capacity building support to WSHGs regarding millets and millet-based prod-ucts.
b. Link the WSHGs with FPOs and different suppliers for millet grains and other millet-based rawmaterial.
c. Provide support to WSHGs for modification of structure of Millet Tiffin centre and vehicle.
d. Provide technical support to WSHGs for running the units.
e. Help in course correction and overall project management.

4. WSHG / WSHG FEDERATION

The WSHG Federation / WSHG selected shall perform the following roles
a. The selected WSHGs will apply for obtaining valid registration of the vehicle for Millet Shakti onWheels unit.
b. Sign an agreement with the DSWO and CDAO of the concerned district for running the respectiveunits.
c. Have existing saving bank account for receiving the grant from Odisha Millets Mission. All expens- es and payments for the Millet Shakti on Wheels shall be done by the WSHG from this saving account.
d. Attend all the trainings organized by the Odisha Millets Mission.
e. Represent the Odisha Millets Mission and Mission Shakti at different platforms as partner.
f. Arrange required infrastructure and working capital as mentioned in this document.
g. Pay the monthly electricity bill, water bill, any taxes and other dues as applicable.
h. Will contribute the modification cost of Tiffin centre and cost of vehicle & registration cost of ve- hicle.

5. DISTRICT MINERAL FOUNDATION, KEONJHAR / SUNDARGARH / ANGUL / 276

--- Page 278 ---

ANYOTHER DISTRICT

The District Mineral Foundation of the district shall perform following roles:
a. Provide funds from the Odisha Millets Mission project for establishment of the units as stipulated in respective districts under the budget of the programme.
b. Review the performance of these units on a quarterly basis.
c. This SOP shall be applicable to other districts as well, where the Odisha Millets Mission is extended through DMF support.

HYGIENE STANDARDS

Highest level of hygiene standards must be adhered to by the WSHG Federation / WSHG in maintenance and operation of the Millet Shakti Tiffin Centres and Millet Shakti on Wheels.

➢ Members working at the Millet Shakti on Wheels shall always use aprons, head covers and gloves.

➢ All cooking vessels should be properly washed and dried before use.

➢ Waste shall be segregated into bio-degradable and non-biodegradable. Separate waste collection bins shall be placed for the purpose.

➢ The SHG Federation / WSHG shall provide full access to all establishments including kitchen, storage areas and the tiffin centres / food truck to food inspectors during their visits as mandated under the FSSAI norms.

Millet Shakti Tiffin Centre
Name of the Activity Millet Shakti Tiffin Centre
Name of the Scheme Odisha Millets Mission
Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific) Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021 & 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.
Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details) -
Total Unit Cost Rs. 60,000/-

277

--- Page 279 ---

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to WSHGs under the activity
Rs. 30,000/- (One time grant full cost)

Beneficiary Contribution
(if any then explain in detail)
Rs. 30,000/-

Turn Over
Rs. 4,50,000/- (300 Days* 75 Plates Per Day*Rs. 20 Per Plate)

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity
Rs. 90,000/- Per Season

Process of release of subsidy (if any then explain in details)
NA

278

--- Page 280 ---

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

The following are the eligibility criteria for WSHG Federations / WSHGs

1. The group / federation must be at least 2 years old.
2. Must be located within the Block area where the proposed enterprise is to be established.
3. Members must be literate; can read and write Odia and have a basic understanding of calculations.
4. Must not be a defaulter to any bank loan.
5. WSHGs having prior experience in commercial food processing and marketing will be preferred.
6. Must arrange infrastructure such as land, building, vehicle, electricity, water supply etc. to obtain other support from Odisha Millets Mission.
7. Must be willing to arrange the working capital / running costs to run the unit.
8. Must be willing to pay the monthly electricity, water bill and any other applicable taxes & other dues.
9. Must be willing to agree to the terms laid down and sign an agreement with District level officers of Mission Shakti and Odisha Millets Mission.
10. Groups having licenses from Government Institutes, FSSAI certification and food business license will be preferred.
11. The WSHG / WSHG Federation must be willing to contribute the cost that varies from Rs 5000 to 20,000 for minor construction material, printing of flex and framing, facia, etc. at the location of the tiffin centre in case of stationary kiosk (stall) and for renovation / purchase / decoration in case of a movable kiosk (thela cart) and Rs. 10,000 from their own funds as start-up working capital.

Ragi Ladoo Mix Preparation

Name of the Activity    Ragi Ladoo Mix Preparation, packaging and supply
to Anganwadi Centre
Name of the Scheme     Odisha Millets Mission
Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs
under the said activity (if specific)

279

--- Page 281 ---

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.)/ Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital 
(if any then explain in details): 

The empanelled WSHGs as Take Home Ration units under ICDS will be engaged under the activity, as they already have experiences and tools managing the production and distribution of ICDS specified food items. Further, the guidelines communicated vide letter No. 20738, dt. 27.10.2021 & 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

20ft x 20ft =400Sq.ft. Space/ Electricity-Single Phase to be borne by the WSHG concerned at least Rs. 60,000/- working capital required for activity initiation and management for months.

Total Unit Cost

As the Ragi is to be supplied by Govt. and raw materials to be procured from open market required for Ragi-ladoo Mix and the service charges for preparation, packaging, and distribution to AWC points is provisioned by the Govt.

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to WSHGs under the activity 

Only the cost of material and service charges are provided as detailed below (estimate is based on the current cost norms)

a. Rs. 11318.41/- per quintal of Ladoo Mix preparation as cost of Non-Ragi raw materials, 

b. Rs.1000/- per quintal of Ladoo Mix preparation, packaging and supply to Anganwadi Centres

Rs. 60,000/- (Working Capital for 2 months)

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail)

Turn Over Rs. 3,00,000/- 

280

--- Page 282 ---

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season /             Rs. 1,00,000/-
activity

Process of release of subsidy (if any then explain           Release of service charges and cost of non-ragi
in details)                                                     raw materials is based on monthly valid bill &
                                                                 vouchers claimed by WSHG 

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINES

1. The scheme is implemented only in the district where the Ragi Ladoo programme is initiated under ICDS in morning snacks of pre-school children
2. The DSWO will be the nodal implementing officer at district level
3. After empanelment of WSHGs they will be trained for Ladoo Mix preparation and management.
4. A regular monitoring shall be done by CDPOs and Mission Shakti Coordinators and report to the DSWO
5. Programme Secretariat, OMM will support capacity building, regular hand holding support to all stakeholders. It will support the DSWO and District Administration for regular reviews and programmemanagement.

Supervision charges of Dugwell

Name of the Activity                                     Supervision charges of Dugwell

Name of the Scheme                                   MGNREGS

Procedure for selection / engagement of WSHGs      Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738,
under the said activity                                  dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of
                                                               Department for A & FE to be followed..

Requirement of land (ha) / Space (Sq Ft) /
Electricity ( 3-Phase or 2-Phase / 
Working Capital (if Any) 

                                                                281

--- Page 283 ---

Total Unit Cost -

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs -
under the activity 

Beneficiary Contribution if any - 

Turn Over - 

Beneficiary net income per year/ 
per season / activity

On an average, Rs.4615.00 per Dugwell is being paid towards supervision charges.

Process of release of subsidy-

1. To compensate the draw down in water table of most of the coastal areas and supplying lifesaving irrigation to the crops in dry seasons, the Dug wells are essential in recharging the ground water and saving the crops in dry spell. The execution of the scheme is proposed through MGNREGS.
2. The WSHGs will be selected through Expression of Interest called by the CDPO and shortlisted by the Block Level Selection Committee. They will mobilise unskilled labour/members of the group in taking attendance of the unskilled labours engaged in the proposed work and will ensure/supervise the quality of work executed.

The size of Dug wells suitable is

3.50m x8m type steining with RCC rings costing Rs. 190000/- (Approx.) out of which the unskilled labour engagement will be for 369 man days => the person days engagement of mate/WSHG as 12= [369/30] person days. So the payment to WSHG is 12xRs355/- (Labour Rate for Semi Skilled Labour)=Rs. 4260.00

3.50m x8m type steining with RRHG masonry costing Rs174000/- out of which the unskilled labour engagement will be 397 man days => the person days engagement of mate/WSHG as 13=[397/30] person days. So the payment to WSHG is 13x355=Rs4615.00

The above figures are tentative and subject to minor charges as per actual plan and estimate.

282

--- Page 284 ---

Supervision charges of Vermi compost pit

Name of the Activity
Supervision charges of Vermi compost pit

Name of the Scheme
MGNREGS

Procedure for selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of land (ha) / Space (Sq Ft) / Electricity (3-Phase or 2-Phase / Working Capital (if Any)
-

Total Unit Cost
-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity
-

Beneficiary Contribution if any
-

Turn Over
-

Beneficiary net income per year/ per season / activity
On an average, Rs.355.00 per Vermi compost pit is being paid towards supervision charges.

Process of release of subsidy
-

283

--- Page 285 ---

1. For management of the soil acidity and in adding natural fertility, the use of vermi compost is essential in such an adverse soil condition of the state. So, the construction of vermi-compost pits is felt essential to produce vermi compost in agriculture. The execution of the scheme is proposed through MGNREGS.
2. Where, the WSHGs will be selected through Expression of Interest called by the CDPO and shortlisted by the Block Level Selection Committee.
3. They will mobilise unskilled labour/members of the group in taking attendance of the unskilled labours engaged in the proposed work and will ensure/supervise the quality of work executed.
4. The size of vermi compost pit
2x3.00m x0.75m type with brickmasonary wall construction costing Rs21000/- out of which the unskilled labour engagement will be 26 man days => the person days engagement of mate/WSHG as 1=[26/30] person days. So the payment to WSHG is 1xRs355/- (Labour Rate for Semi Skilled Labour)=Rs355.00

The above figures are tentative and subject to minor changes as per actual plan and estimate.

Supervision charges of Jute Retting Tank

Name of the Activity
Supervision charges of Jute retting Tank

Name of the Scheme
MGNREGS

Procedure for selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of land (ha) / Space (Sq Ft) / Electricity (3-Phase or 2-Phase /
Working Capital (if Any)
Total Unit Cost

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity
Beneficiary Contribution if any

284

--- Page 286 ---

Turn Over -

Beneficiary net income per year/ per season / activity

On an average, Rs.2840.00 per Jute Retting Tank is being paid towards supervision charges.

Process of release of subsidy -

285

--- Page 287 ---

1. For creation of pondage in decomposing the jute plant for segregation of jute fibre the Jute retting Tanks are essential to protect the natural water bodies from pollution. Again the quality of indigenously produced jute fibre is not marketable; where in the use of Jute Retting Tank will effectively enhance the quality of Jute fibre, thus bringing in increased market value that ensures higher income to the jute grower. So, the construction of Jute retting Tanks is felt essential to suffice the same.

2. The execution of the scheme is proposed through MGNREGS. Where, the WSHGs will be selected through Expression of Interest called by the CDPO and shortlisted by the Block Level Selection Committee.

3. They will mobilise unskilled labour/members of the group in taking attendance of the unskilled labours engaged in the proposed work and will ensure/supervise the quality of work executed.

4. The size of Jute Retting Tank

1x 15.00m x 15.00m x 1.5m type with RCC-cum-brickmasonary wall construction costing Rs450000/- out of which the unskilled labour engagement will be 250 man days => the person days engagement of mate/WSHG as 8=[250/30] person days. So the payment to WSHG is 8xRs355/- (Labour Rate for Semi Skilled Labour)=Rs.2840.00

The above figures are tentative and subject to minor changes as per actual plan and estimate.


Community managed Seed Center

Name of the Activity 
Agri-ventures by supplying farm Machineries (Community managed Seed Center)

Name of the Scheme 
Odisha Millets Mission

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific) 
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.202128 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details) 

Total Unit Cost 
Rs. 1,50,000

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to WSHGs under the activity 
Beneficiary Contribution(if any then explain in detail)

286

--- Page 288 ---

Rs. 1,50,000                                  Nil

                             Turn Over                                      Rs. 50,000/-

Beneficiary Net income per year /   Rs. 5,000/- (1000 Kg Seeds* Rs.50 per Kg)
per season / activity
Process of release of subsidy      NA
(if any then explain in details)

                                                                          287

--- Page 289 ---

The programme intends to establish a decentralized seed system managed by the farmers’ based organizations that will produce and supply quality landraces or varieties of millets and other crops suitable for their locality well in time to the farmers. These seed systems will explore possibility of supplying quality seeds to programmes such as OMM, ATMA, PKVY, Odisha Organic Mission, any farmer.

1. In the long-run, the purpose of community managed seed system is to cater demand driven seed supply to local farmers with less dependent on government subsidies/traders.
2. FA will identify a suitable location for establishment of the seed center in consultation with AAO/BAOand Programme Secretariat.
3. Additional Block Coordinator of FA shall monitor the seed production process and ensure processing is done as per requirement. Additional block Coordinator of FA shall oversee germination test, selectionof seed producers.
4. Each Community Seed Centre (CSC) shall have additional 3 seasonal sub centers so that, quality seeds are available in time to the farmer at their reach.
5. Sub centers should be established during the season at the proximity of the farmers and programmeclusters.
6. Sub centres may be anchored by the local WSHG/Farmer Groups at the village level. Sub centres shall enter into an agreement with the Community Seed Centre of the Odisha Millets Mission.
7. Detailed seed transactions will be recorded in a register.
8. CSC and sub-centers shall also maintain bio diversity register with focus on agro biodiversity.
9. The main CSC shall be linked to millet processing units for maintenance of physical purity.
10. The main CSC shall procure the items required for the storage,sale and management of the seed centres.

Following indicative items and other required items shall be purchased

- Electronic Weighing Machine BIS standard— 1Qntl Capacity.
- Digital Moisture Meter.
- Tarpaulins@250GSM. BIS standard

288

--- Page 290 ---

- Storage bins—50kg bins as per requirement.
- Stitching Machine
- Packaging Machine for 1kg, 2.5kg and 5kg.
- Dunnage Materials
- Geolyte beads for maintaining moisture content of germ-plasm
- Traditional storage material as per local rates.

289

--- Page 291 ---

Establishment of Custom hiring Centre

Name of the Activity
Establishment of Custom hiring Centre

Name of the Scheme
Odisha Millets Mission

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt. 27.10.2021& 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of
Department for A & FE to be followed.

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details)
Electricity- Three Phase

Total Unit Cost
Rs. 1,00,000/-

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to WSHGs under the activity
Rs. 1,00,000/-

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail)
Nil

Turn Over
Rs. 36,000/- (180 Days*Rs. 200 Per Day hiring charges)

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity
Rs. 18,000/-

Process of release of subsidy (if any then explain in details)
NA

BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

After selection of WSHG by the committee and due approval by the Collector cum Chairman ATMA, a tri partite agreement will be signed between the selected WSHG, FA and AAO/BAO/ CDAO-cum-PD, ATMA (asapplicable).

1. The CDAO-cum-PD, ATMA will place order the empanelled machine suppliers for installation at suitable place desired by the selected WSHG.
2. Programme Secretariat will organize training of trainers on the operational modalities of the processing units supported by machine manufacturer.
3. After the training of the WSHG, handholding support and business plan

290

--- Page 292 ---

development on the operationalisation shall be given by the FA and Programme Secretariat.
4. A regular monitoring shall be done by FA. Monthly status on processing machine operations shall bereported to CDAO-cum-PD, ATMA through AAO/BAO.
5. A quarterly monitoring shall be done by Programme Secretariat and AAO/BAO

291

--- Page 293 ---

Custom Hiring Centre  
(Supply of Set of Agril. Implements)  

Name of the Activity  
Custom Hiring Centre (Supply of Set of Agril. Implements)  

Name of the Scheme  
Post Harvest & Marketing Support Activities under BGREI 2019-20  

Procedure of selection / engagement of WSHGs under the said activity (if specific)  
Guidelines communicated vide letter No.20738, dt.27.10.2021 & 24671 dt.09.12.2021 of Department for A & FE to be followed.  

Requirement of Land (Ha)/ Space (Sq. ft.) / Electricity (3-phase or 2-phase) / Working Capital (if any then explain in details)  
300 Sq. Ft. Space/ Electricity- Single Phase  

Total Unit Cost  
Rs. 1,37,310/-  

Financial Assistance / Subsidy to SHGs under the activity  
100% financial assistance  

Beneficiary Contribution (if any then explain in detail)  
Nil  

Turn Over  
Rs. 5,00,000/-  

Beneficiary Net income per year / per season / activity  
Rs. 1,40,000/-  

292

--- Page 294 ---

Process of release of subsidy Development Engineer will supply the sets of implements through SSI units/ Manufacturers as per the modalities of set of Machineries/ Implements under BGREI “Post Harvest & Marketing Support”.   
  
BRIEF OUTLINE OF THE GUIDELINE

1. It is proposed to supply 32 sets of machineries/ implements (Each set contains- Mini Rice Mill- 1no., Paddy Cleaner-cum-Grader- 1no., Pedal Thresher- 2nos., Hand Winnower- 2nos. & Parboiling Unit- 2nos.) free of cost to 32 WSHGs in different BGREI implementing districts for their utilization in custom hiring basis under “Post Harvest& Marketing Support” under BGREI in collaboration with Mission Shakti.  
2. The concerned Chief District Agriculture Officer will communicate the list of selected WSHG to the Director of Agriculture & Food Production (O), Bhubaneswar adhering to the target communicated by the DA&FP(O).  
3. The funds required will be placed with D.E., OFMRDC, Bhubaneswar by the DA & FP (O), Bhubaneswar.  
4. The Development Engineer, OFMRDC, Bhubaneswar will make arrangement for supply of 32 sets of machineries/ implements to the concerned districts through selected SSI units/ manufacturers following the modalities for supply of sets of machineries /implements under BGREI “Post Harvest& Market Support”.  
5. The selected SSI units/ manufacturers shall supply the set of machineries/ implements to the selected WSHGs as per instruction of the Development Engineer, OFMRDC, Bhubaneswar under intimation to the Development Engineer, OFMRDC, concerned CDAO and to the DA&FP(O).  
6. The supplier shall ensure no cost replacement of any damaged implements.  
7. The CDAOs concerned will instruct the concerned BAOs/ AAOs, AAEs/ AEEs & BPM/BPC, Mission Shakti to visit the WSHGs on delivery of the machineries/ implements and furnish a joint verification report confirming to specification, quality, installation & successful trial performance. The Joint verification report will be submitted to the DE, OFMRDC under intimation to the DA&FP(O).  
8. On receipt of the Joint verification report, challan and stock entry certificate from the respective WSHG duly countersigned by the Block/ District level 75% of the bill amount will be paid to the supplying firms by D.E., OFMRDC.  
9. Balance 25% of the bill amount will be paid after completion of 1 year of supply and after obtaining certificate regarding proper functioning of the machineries/ implements by the AAE/ AEE of the district concerned.  
10. Training, Demonstration and documentation etc. will be done by the supplier in presence of WSHG members/ VAW/ AAE within a fortnight of supply of the  


--- Page 295 ---

machineries. The same in prescribed format will be countersigned by the C.D.A.O. concerned and submitted to the DA &FP (O), Bhubaneswar with a copy to D.E., OFMRDC for taking necessary action at his end.

Rejuvenating Watersheds for Agricultural Resilience through Innovative Development (REWARD):

World Bank assisted science-based watershed development programme - Rejuvenating Watersheds for Agricultural Resilience through Innovative Development (REWARD) are to be implemented in 5 districts from 2022-23 for treatment of 1.15 lakh ha. In saturation mode. REWARD will support the new generation watershed projects of the Government of India’s (GoI’s) watershed development program i. e. WDC-PMKSY/2.0.

INNOVATIVE AGROFORESTRY FOR FOOD & NUTRITION SECURITY

The new state sector scheme “Innovative Agroforestry for Food & Nutrition Security” will be implemented in the state from FY 2022-23 to 2026-27 with a budgetary outlay of Rs 50.0 Crore. The scheme is planned to incentivise the farmers to adopt system-based agroforestry rather than a stand-alone tree plantation. For the FY 2022-23, an annual action plan of Rs. 993.2625 lakh has been approved.

OTHER SCHEMES

1. ODISHA MINERAL BEARING AREA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (OMBADC):

Directorate of Soil Conservation & Watershed Development is implementing soil and water conservation activities for sustainable livelihoods promotion through Watershed development programme and Water Harvesting structures in the mining affected villages of the State.

OMBADC has approved nine Watershed clusters in Sundargarh, Jajpur and Mayurbhanj districts with a treatable area of 35233 Hect. and project out lay of Rs 43.95 Crore besides 976 nos of Water Harvesting Structures have also been approved in Sundargarh, Jajpur, Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj districts with a project cost of Rs 72.20 Crore for creating 2300 Hect. of irrigation potentiality benefiting 6328 farmers.

275 nos of Water Harvesting Structures (WHS/Check dam) have been completed with an expenditure of Rs 16.36 Crores during the year 2021-22 and 2nd year activities of 9 Watershed clusters with expenditure 6.96 Crores.

294

--- Page 296 ---

2. DISTRICT MINERAL FOUNDATION (DMF):
DMF is being implemented in Jharsuguda, Jajpur, Koraput and Rayagada districts to create irrigation potential and livelihood improvement in the mining affected villages. 51 nos. of Water Harvesting Structures/ Check dams with irrigation potentiality of 255 Hect. have been constructed utilizing Rs 4.57 Crores by the Directorate during 2021-22 in Jajpur, Jharsuguda, Raygada and Koraput districts.

3. FAO-GEF assisted Green Agriculture Project:
The Green Agriculture Project is being implemented in the Similipal Biosphere Reserve area in Mayurbhanj district. The Project Objective is transforming Indian Agriculture for Global benefits and Conservation of Critical Biodiversity and Forest Landscapes. The focal programme areas of the project are Biodiversity (BD), Land Degradation (LD), Climate Change Mitigation (CCM) and Sustainable Forest Management (SFM). Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations in collaboration with Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare (MoAFW) and Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (MoEFCC), Government of India is the Implementing Agency at the national level. Department of Agriculture &FE is the nodal department at the State Level. The project will be implemented over a period of six years (2019-2025) with an estimated grant budget of Rs 55.45 Crores. The physical activities will be executed through convergence of ongoing schemes of line departments in the selected micro watersheds/villages.

295